**Exercises 1-6**

0

16

1

22

(1, 6)

(2, 2)



**Exercises 7-13**

$n\mathbb{Z}$ is a commutative ring. It has unity iff $n=\pm1$. It is not a field iff $n\neq 0$.

$\mathbb{Z}^+$ is not a ring, as it does not have additive inverses.

$\mathbb{Z}\times\mathbb{Z}$ is a commutative ring with unity. It is not a field.

$2\mathbb{Z}\times\mathbb{Z}$ is a commutative ring without unity.

$\{a+b\sqrt{2}\ |\ a,b\in\mathbb{Z}\}$ is a ring with unity. It is not a field.

$\{a+b\sqrt{2}\ |\ a,b\in\mathbb{Q}\}$ is a ring with unity. It is a field. ($\frac{1}{a+b\sqrt{2}}=\frac{a-b\sqrt{2}}{a^2-2b^2}$)

$\{ri\ |\ r\in\mathbb{R}\}$ is not a ring. Not closed under multiplication.



**Exercises 14-19**

$1, -1$

$(1, 1), (1, -1), (-1, 1), (-1, -1)$

$1, 2, 3, 4$

$q\in\mathbb{Q}\ |\ q\neq 0$

$(\pm1, q, \pm1) \ |\ q\in\mathbb{Q}, q\neq 0$

$1, 3$



**Exercise 20**

a.

16

b.

$\begin{bmatrix}1&0\\0&1\end{bmatrix},\begin{bmatrix}0&1\\1&0\end{bmatrix}$



**Lemma A:**

Let $R$ and $R'$ be rings. Let $R$ have unity $1$. Let $\phi : R\to R'$ be a ring homomorphism.

$\phi(1)=\phi(1\cdot1)=\phi(1)\phi(1)$

$\phi(1)$ must be idempotent under multiplication, i.e. its square must be equal to itself.



**Corollary B:**

A homomorphism must map idempotent elements to other idempotent elements.



**Exercise 21**

$\phi : \mathbb{Z}_6\to\mathbb{Z}_6$ given by $\phi(x)=3x$ is a homomorphism.

$\phi(1)=3$ which is neither 1 nor 0, giving us our example.



**Exercise 22**

No. $\det(I_2+I_2)=4\neq2=\det(I_2)+\det(I_2)$



**Exercise 23**

Since $\mathbb{Z}$ is cyclic, a homomorphism from it is uniquely determined by where the sole generator is sent. $\phi(1)$ determines the homomorphism. By Lemma A, the only two possibilities are $0$ and $1$, since they are the only integers that are equal to their own square. Therefore, there are only two homomorphisms from $\mathbb{Z}$ to $\mathbb{Z}$, $\phi(x)=0$ and the identity homomorphism.



**Exercise 24**

$\phi(x)=(0, 0)$, $\phi(x)=(0, x)$, $\phi(x)=(x, 0)$, $\phi(x)=(x, x)$



**Exercise 25**

$\mathbb{Z}\times\mathbb{Z}$ is generated by $(1, 0)$ and $(0,1)$, so a homomorphism is uniquely determined by $\phi(1, 0)$ and $\phi(0, 1)$. Both of these elements are idempotent so by Corollary B they must map to other idempotent elements. The only two idempotent elements in $\mathbb{Z}$ are 0 and 1, giving us four options:

$\phi(x, y)=0$, $\phi(x, y)=x$, $\phi(x, y)=y$, $\phi(x,y)=x+y$. The last one is not a homomorphism because $(1,1)$ - which is idempotent - is sent to $2$ which is not idempotent. The other three can be verified by inspection, giving us three homomorphisms.



**Exercise 26**

$\phi(x,y,z)=0$, $\phi(x,y,z)=x$, $\phi(x,y,z)=y$, $\phi(x,y,z)=z$, so four.

Taking $(1,0,0),(0,1,0),(0,0,1)$ as our generating set, all three generators are idempotent. The only idempotents in $\mathbb{Z}$ are 0 and 1. Only one of the generators can be mapped to 1, because if two were mapped to 1, then the sum of those two generators would be idempotent but map to 2 - an element that is not idempotent, showing that there are no other homomorphisms.



**Exercise 27**

The last step (after factorization) is incorrect.

$\begin{bmatrix}1&0\\0&0\end{bmatrix}\begin{bmatrix}0&0\\0&1\end{bmatrix}=0$

Two matrices can be nonzero while multiplying to 0.



**Exercise 28**

$x^2+x-6=(x+3)(x-2)=0$

$x=2,4,9,11$

Result can be verified by computation.



**Exercise 29**

Correct.



**Exercise 30**

"magnitude" is not a defined term. A unit is an element with a multiplicative inverse, i.e. $x$ is a unit if there exists $y$ s.t. $xy=yx=1$



**Exercise 31**

An example exists in the solution of Exercise 27 and 28



**Exercise 32**

The subring $\{0,3\}$ of the ring $\mathbb{Z}_6$.



**Exercise 33**

a. T

b. F

c. F

d. F

e. T ($\mathbb{Z}$ and $\mathbb{R}$)

f. F

g. F

h. T

i. T

j. T



**Exercise 34**

TODO



**Exercise 35**

TODO



**Exercise 36**

TODO



**Exercise 37**

Since the inverse of a unit is a unit, inverses exist in $\langle U,\cdot\rangle$. Since unity is a unit, identity exists. If $x$ and $y$ are units, $y^{-1}x^{-1}$ is a suitable inverse to $xy$, showing that $xy$ is a unit and that $\langle U,\cdot\rangle$ is closed under multiplication, showing that it is a group.



**Exercise 38**

$a^2-b^2=(a+b)(a-b)$

$=(a+b)a-(a+b)b$

$=a^2+ba-ab-b^2$

Cancelling the $a^2$ and $b^2$ terms,

$0=ba-ab$

$ab=ba$

showing that the initial assumption is equivalent to $a$ and $b$ commuting.



**Exercise 39**

Associativity is obvious.

Left distributivity:

$a(b+c)=0=0+0=ab+ac$

Right distributivity:

$(a+b)c=0=0+0=ab+bc$



**Exercise 40**

For any homomorphism, $\phi(2)=3n$ for some $n\in\mathbb{Z}$.

$\phi(4)=\phi(4)$

$\phi(2+2)=\phi(2\cdot2)$

$\phi(2)+\phi(2)=\phi(2)\phi(2)$

$6n=9n^2$

$6=9n$

No such $n$ exists. There are no homomorphisms from $2\mathbb{Z}$ to $3\mathbb{Z}$, let alone isomorphisms.



In $\mathbb{R}$, there is only one element satisfying $x^3=1$. In $\mathbb{C}$, there are three. This shows that a homomorphism from $\mathbb{R}$ cannot be onto $\mathbb{C}$, only into. This shows that they are not isomorphic. (The argument works because both are fields and unity is unique in a field.)



**Exercise 41**

Since $\mathbb{Z}_p$ is commutative, $(a+b)^p=\sum_{i=0}^p\binom{p}{i}a^ib^{p-i}$.

$\binom{p}{i}=\frac{p!}{i!(p-i)!}$. The numerator is always divisible by $p$. If $0<i<p$, then the denominator is obviously not divisible by $p$, meaning that for $0<i<p$, $\binom{p}{i}$ is divisible by $p$ meaning it is $0$ in $\mathbb{Z}_p$. This means that $\binom{p}{i}a^ib^{p-i}=0$ for $0<i<p$, leaving only the $i=0$ and $i=p$ terms, which sum to $a^p+b^p$. This shows that $(a+b)^p=a^p+b^p$ in $\mathbb{Z}_p$.



**Exercise 42**

Let $x$ be some nonzero element of the subfield. (Every field must at least have one nonzero element.) $x^{-1}$ will also be in the subfield, therefore $xx^{-1}=1$ will also be in the subfield because it is closed under the whole field's operations, meaning that the unity of the whole field must be included in the subfield.



**Exercise 43**

Let $y$ and $z$ be two inverses of a unit $x$.

$xy=1$ and $xz=1$.

Since $x$ is a unit, it can be canceled from $xy=xz$ leaving $y=z$, showing that the inverse of a unit is unique.



**Exercise 44**

a.

Let $a$ and $b$ be two idempotents.

$a^2=a$, $a^2b=ab$, $a^2b^2=ab$, and since the ring is commutative $(ab)^2=ab$ showing that $ab$ is idempotent, meaning that the set of idempotent elements of a commutative ring is closed under multiplication.

b.

$\{0, 1, 3, 4\}\times\{0, 1, 4, 9\}$



**Exercise 45**

$PP=A(A^TA)^{-1}A^TA(A^TA)^{-1}A^T$

$=A(A^TA)^{-1}(A^TA)(A^TA)^{-1}A^T$

$=A(A^TA)^{-1}A^T=P$

Showing that $P$ is idempotent.



**Exercise 46**

Let $a^n=0$ and $b^m=0$ for some elements $a,b$ and positive integers $n,m$. Let $k$ be the maximum of $n,m$. Obviously, $a^k=b^k=0$. The terms of the binomial expansion of $(a+b)^{2k}$ will be multiples of $a^ib^{2k-i}$. if $i\geq k$, the term is 0 since $a^i=0$. If $i<k$, adding $k-i$ to both sides we have $k<2k-i$, meaning that $b^{2k-i}=0$ so the term is again 0. This means that all terms of the expansion are 0 meaning that $(a+b)^{2k}=0$, showing that $a+b$ is nilpotent.



**Exercise 47**

If the only nilpotent is 0, 0 is the only solution to $x^2=0$:

If there were any other solutions, it would be both nonzero and nilpotent which contradicts the hypothesis.

If there is a nonzero nilpotent, there is a nonzero solution to $x^2=0$:

Let the nonzero nilpotent be $a$. Let $n$ be the smallest positive integer s.t. $a^n=0$. Since $a$ is nonzero, $n\geq 2$. If $n$ is even, $a^{n/2}$ is a nonzero solution. If $n$ is odd, $a^{n+1}=0$ and $a^{(n+1)/2}$ is a nonzero solution.



**Exercise 48**

If $S$ is a subring, it is obvious that all three hold. We will show that the combination of the three conditions is sufficient for $S$ to be a subring.

R1: abelian group under addition

Associativity: from $R$ being a ring

Identity: from the 1st condition

Inverse: $0-a$ is the additive inverse of $a$ obtained by the 2nd condition

R2: multiplicative associativity

R3: distributivity

from $R$ being a ring

Closed:

For $a,b\in S$, $a-(-b)\in S$ so $a+b\in S$, and $ab\in S$ so $S$ is closed under the ring operations.



**Exercise 49**

The proof is trivial.



**Exercise 50**

Multiplicative identity:

$a0=0$ so $0\in I_a$

Closed under subtraction:

For $x,y\in I_a$

$a(x-y)=ax-ay=0-0=0$ showing that $x-y\in I_a$

Closed under multiplication:

For $x,y\in I_a$

$a(xy)=(ax)y=0y=0$ showing that $xy\in I_a$

By Exercise 48, these three are enough to show that $I_a$ is a subring.



**Exercise 51**

Every element of $R_a$ is equal to a sum of products of $a$. This is because all products with a sum as a factor can be distributed out. Products of $a$ are precisely the $a^k$ for positive integer $k$. This means that every element of $R_a$ is equal to a sum of the $a^k$, which is equivalent to the statement that we want to show.



**Exercise 52**

The isomorphism $\phi : \mathbb{Z}_{rs} \to \mathbb{Z}_r\times\mathbb{Z}_s$ given uniquely by $\phi(1)=(1,1)$ is in Example 18.15. Since $\phi(x)=(x \mod r, x \mod s)$, the result follows from the surjectivity of $\phi$.



**Exercise 53**

a.

Let $r_i$ be pairwise coprime positive integers.

$\phi(1)=(1,1,\ldots,1)$ is an isomorphism from $\mathbb{Z}_{\prod r_i}$ to $\prod\mathbb{Z}_{r_i}$ because both are cyclic abelian of order $\prod r_i$ (by Corollary 11.6) along with that $1$ and $(1,1,\ldots,1)$ are their generators respectively.

b.

Consider the $\phi$ of (a). $\phi(x)=(x\mod r_1, x\mod r_2,\ldots)$. Since $\phi$ is surjective, for any tuple of residues there is an $x$ s.t. $\phi(x)$ is the tuple.



**Exercise 54**

Unity exists since $\langle S^*,\cdot\rangle$ is a group and has an identity.

$(1+1)(a+b)=(1+1)(a+b)$

$(1+1)a+(1+1)b=1(a+b)+1(a+b)$

$a+a+b+b=a+b+a+b$

$a+b=b+a$

showing that $\langle S,+\rangle$ is abelian.

Since $\langle S^*,\cdot\rangle$ forms a group, $a(bc)=(ab)c$ for all nonzero $a,b,c$. To prove that the associativity of multiplication holds even if one of $a,b,c$ is $0$, we will first show that $x0=0x=0$ for all $x$.

$x0=x(0+0)=x0+x0$

$x0=x0+x0$

$0=x0$

$0x=(0+0)x=0x+0x$

$0x=0x+0x$

$0=0x$

With this result,

$(0b)c=0c=0=0(bc)$

$(a0)c=0c=0=a0=a(0c)$

$(ab)0=0=a0=a(b0)$

showing that associativity holds even if there is a 0 among $a,b,c$. This means that multiplication is associative. The distributivity properties are already part of the assumption. All nonzero elements are in $S^*$ and from $\cdot$ all of them have inverses, so all nonzero elements are units. All of the properties of a division ring are satisfied, completing the proof.



**Exercise 55**

$(x+y)^2=(x+y)$

$x^2+xy+yx+y^2=x+y$

$x+y+xy+yx=x+y$

$xy+yx=0$

$xy=yx$



**Exercise 56**

a.

```

 +|0  a  b  ab

--+-----------

0 |0  a  b  ab

a |a  0  ab b

b |b  ab 0  a

ab|ab b  a  0



 *|0  a  b  ab

--+-----------

0 |0  0  0  0

a |0  a  0  a

b |0  0  b  b

ab|0  a  b  ab

```

b.

Since the distinct elements of $S$ affect the result of the operation independently, the construction for $S=\{s_1,s_2,\ldots\}$ is the direct product of the construction from $\{s_1\},\{s_2\},\ldots$. The construction from $\{x\}$ is by inspection a Boolean ring. (The direct product of Boolean rings is obviously Boolean)
