**Exercises 1-12**

$\mathbb{Z}_2$

$\mathbb{Z}_2\times\mathbb{Z}_2$

$\mathbb{Z}_4$

$\mathbb{Z}_8$

$\mathbb{Z}_4\times\mathbb{Z}_8$

$\mathbb{Z}$

$\mathbb{Z}\times\mathbb{Z}_2$

$\mathbb{Z}\times\mathbb{Z}$

$\mathbb{Z}_3\times\mathbb{Z}\times\mathbb{Z}_4$

$\mathbb{Z}\times\mathbb{Z}_4\times\mathbb{Z}_8$

$\mathbb{Z}_2\times\mathbb{Z}$

$\mathbb{Z}_3\times\mathbb{Z}\times\mathbb{Z}$



**Exercise 13**

$C=Z(D_4)=\langle\rho_2\rangle$



**Exercise 14**

$Z(\mathbb{Z}_3\times S_3)=\mathbb{Z}_3\times\{\rho_0\}$

$C=\{0\}\times \langle\rho_1\rangle$



**Exercise 15**

$Z(S_3\times D_4) = \{\rho_0\}\times \langle\rho_2\rangle$

$C = \langle\rho_1\rangle\times \langle\rho_2\rangle$



**Exercise 16**

(Omitting trivial case)

Order 2:

$\langle(0,2)\rangle$: $\mathbb{Z}_4\times\mathbb{Z}_2$

$\langle(2,0)\rangle$: $\mathbb{Z}_4\times\mathbb{Z}_2$

$\langle(2,2)\rangle$: $\mathbb{Z}_4\times\mathbb{Z}_2$

Order 4:

$\langle(0,2), (2,0)\rangle$: $\mathbb{Z}_2\times\mathbb{Z}_2$

$\langle(0,1)\rangle$: $\mathbb{Z}_4$

$\langle(1,0)\rangle$: $\mathbb{Z}_4$

$\langle(1,1)\rangle$: $\mathbb{Z}_4$

$\langle(1,2)\rangle$: $\mathbb{Z}_4$

$\langle(1,3)\rangle$: $\mathbb{Z}_4$

$\langle(2,1)\rangle$: $\mathbb{Z}_4$



**Exercise 17**

Correct.



**Exercise 18**

"the subgroup generated by" before the set.



**Exercise 19**

a. T

b. F ($\mathbb{Z}_2\times\mathbb{Z}_2/\mathbb{Z}_2$)

c. F (0.5)

d. T ($\frac{1}{n}$)

e. F

f. T

g. F ($G/G$)

h. F

i. T

j. F



**Exercise 20**

All $f\in F$ s.t. $f(0)=0$.



**Exercise 21**

All $f\in F$ s.t. $f(0)=1$.



**Exercise 22**

Such a coset contains a discontinuous $f$ s.t. $2f$ is continuous. This is obviously impossible.



**Exercise 23**

Such a coset contains a discontinuous $f$ s.t. $f^2$ is continuous. This is obviously impossible.



**Exercise 24**

It suffices to show that $f(z)=z_0z$ is a bijection.

Injective:

$f(z_1)=f(z_2)$

$z_0z_1=z_0z_2$

$z_1=z_2$

Surjective:

For any $z\in U$,

$f(\frac{z}{z_0})=z_0\frac{z}{z_0}=z$

showing that there exists an element sent to $z$.

Since this is a bijection from $U$ to $U$, then the set described is simply $U$ again. Obviously, $U\leq U$. $U/U$ is $\{e\}$.



**Exercise 25**

$U$



**Exercise 26**

$U$



**Exercise 27**

$U$



**Exercise 28**

$G=\mathbb{Z}$, $H=2\mathbb{Z}$



**Exercise 34**

A subgroup of index 2 will be normal and proper. This means that there is a proper nontrivial normal subgroup meaning that the group is not simple.



**Exercise 35**

We will show that $g'n'g'^{-1}\in \phi[N]$ for all $g'\in \phi[G]$ and $n'\in \phi[N]$.

Surely there must exist $g\in G$ and $n\in N$ s.t. $\phi(g)=g'$ and $\phi(n)=n'$.

$gng^{-1}=n_1\in N$ due to $N$ being normal. Applying $\phi$,

$\phi(gng^{-1})=\phi(g)\phi(n)\phi(g^{-1})=g'n'g'^{-1}=\phi(n)$, completing the proof.



**Exercise 36**

Let's call $N=\phi^{-1}[N']$. We will show that $gng^{-1}\in N$ for all $g\in G$ and $n\in N$. It will suffice to show that $\phi(gng^{-1})=\phi(g)\phi(n)\phi(g)^{-1}\in N'$. This obviously holds because $\phi(n)\in N'$, and conjugation will leave it in $N'$.



**Exercise 37**

Let $N=Z(G)$. If $G/Z(G)$ is cyclic it must have some generator $aN$. Every element of $G/Z(G)$ is of the form $a^kN$ for some $k\in\mathbb{Z}^+$. This means that every element of $G$ is of the form $a^kn$ for some $k\in\mathbb{Z}^+$ and $n\in N$. Consider any $x,y\in G$. There exist $k_x,k_y\in\mathbb{Z}^+$ and $n_x,n_y\in N$ s.t. $x=a^{k_x}n_x$ and $y=a^{k_y}n_y$.

$xy=a^{k_x}n_xa^{k_y}n_y=a^{k_y}n_ya^{k_x}n_x=yx$ since $n_x,n_y\in Z(G)$ and powers of a fixed element commute. This shows that $G$ is abelian, completing the proof.



**Exercise 38**

Since $G$ is nonabelian, by the previous result $G/Z(G)$ must be noncyclic. Since $Z(G)\leq G$, by Lagrange's theorem, $|Z(G)|$ is either 1, $p$, $q$, or $pq$. It cannot be $pq$ because that would mean $G=Z(G)$ however $G$ is nonabelian. It cannot be $p$, because if it were then $|G/Z(G)|=q$ which would mean $G/Z(G)$ is cyclic, which is a contradiction. Following the same logic for $q$, the only possibility is 1, meaning that $G$ has a trivial center, completing the proof.



**Exercise 39**

a.

Every 3-cycle is of the form $(a,b,c)=(a,c)(a,b)$, which shows that they are all in $A_n$.

b.

Take any element of $A_n$. The sequence of transpositions that gives it can be factored into a product of pairs of transpositions. There are three cases for a pair of transpositions.

0 shared elements: $(a,b)(c,d)=(a,c,b)(a,c,d)$

1 shared element: $(a,b)(a,c)=(a,c,b)$

2 shared elements: $(a,b)(a,b)=\iota$ 

In each case, it is a product of 3-cycles. This shows that every pair of transpositions can be factored into 3-cycles, and by extension every element of $A_n$

c.

$(r,s,i)^2=(r,i,s)$

$(r,s,j)(r,s,i)^2=(r,s,j)(r,i,s)=(r,i,j)$

$(r,s,j)^2(r,s,i)=(r,j,s)(r,s,i)=(s,i,j)$

$(r,s,i)^2(r,s,k)(r,s,j)^2(r,s,i)=(s,k,i)(s,i,j)$

$=(i,j,k)$

meaning that we can obtain any 3-cycle from a product of special 3-cycles.

d.

Let the 3-cycle be $(a,b,c)$. For any 3-cycle $(i,j,k)$:

$(a,b,k)(a,b,c)(a,k,b)=(b,k,c)$

$(a,b,i)(b,k,c)(a,i,b)=(c,i,k)$

$(c,i,j)(c,i,k)(c,j,i)=(i,j,k)$

showing that we can get any 3-cycle from a series of conjugations of the 3-cycle. If one 3-cycle is in $N$, all of them are, and by extension (from (b)) $N=A_n$.

e.

I.

$N=A_n$ by (d).

II.

Let the disjoint product be $\sigma=\mu(a,b,c,d,\ldots)$.

Making a conjugation, $(a,b,c)\mu(a,b,c,d,\ldots)(a,c,b)=\mu(b,c,a,d,\ldots)$

Multiplying by $\sigma$ on the left should give an element of $N$ since it's a subgroup: $\sigma(\mu(b,c,a,d,\ldots))^{-1}$

$=(a,b,c,d,\ldots)(b,c,a,d,\ldots)^{-1}$

$=(d,b,a)$

Showing that a 3-cycle must be in $N$. From (d), we know that this means $N=A_n$.

III.

Let the disjoint product be $\sigma=\mu(d,e,f)(a,b,c)$

Conjugating by $(a,b,d)$,

$(a,b,d)\mu(d,e,f)(a,b,c)(a,d,b)$

$=\mu(a,e,f)(b,d,c)$

Multiplying by $\sigma^{-1}$ on the left should give an element of $N$ since it's a subgroup:

$\sigma^{-1}\mu(a,e,f)(b,d,c)$

$=(a,c,b)(d,f,e)(a,e,f)(b,d,c)$

$=(a,d,b,f,c)$

after which follows that $N=A_n$ from (II).

IV.

Let the disjoint product be $\sigma=\mu(a,b,c)$ where $\mu$ is a product of disjoint transpositions.

$\sigma^2=\mu(a,b,c)\mu(a,b,c)$

Since the product is disjoint,

$=\mu^2(a,c,b)$

Obviously a product of disjoint transpositions is the identity when squared,

$=(a,c,b)$

and $N=A_n$ by (d).

V.

TODO

