**Exercise 1-5**

$\begin{pmatrix}1&2&3&4&5&6 \\ 1&2&3&6&5&4 \end{pmatrix}$

$\begin{pmatrix}1&2&3&4&5&6 \\ 2&4&1&5&6&3 \end{pmatrix}$

$\begin{pmatrix}1&2&3&4&5&6 \\ 3&4&1&6&2&5 \end{pmatrix}$

$\begin{pmatrix}1&2&3&4&5&6 \\ 5&1&6&2&4&3 \end{pmatrix}$

$\begin{pmatrix}1&2&3&4&5&6 \\ 2&6&1&5&4&3 \end{pmatrix}$



**Exercise 6-9**

6

2

$\begin{pmatrix}1&2&3&4&5&6 \\ 6&5&2&1&3&4 \end{pmatrix}$

$\begin{pmatrix}1&2&3&4&5&6 \\ 1&2&3&4&5&6 \end{pmatrix}$



**Exercise 10**

$\mathbb{Z}$ under addition

The subgroup $\langle\pi\rangle$ of $\mathbb{R}^*$ under multiplication

$17\mathbb{Z}$ under addition

$3\mathbb{Z}$ under addition

***

The subgroup $G$ of $S_5$ generated by $\begin{pmatrix}1&2&3&4&5 \\ 3&5&4&1&2 \end{pmatrix}$

$\mathbb{Z}_6$

***

$S_2$

$\mathbb{Z}_2$

***

$S_6$

***

$\mathbb{Q}$ under addition

***

$\mathbb{Q}^*$ under multiplication

***

$\mathbb{R}$ under addition

$\mathbb{R}^+$ under multiplication

***

$\mathbb{R}^*$ under multiplication

***

$\mathbb{C}^*$ under multiplication



**Exercise 11-13**

1 3 4 5 6 2

1 2 4 3

1 5



**Exercise 14**

The triangle can be flipped or unflipped. $\epsilon$, $\rho$, $\rho^2$ give the three unflipped rotations, and $\phi$, $\phi\rho$, $\phi\rho^2$ gve the three flipped rotations.



**Exercise 15**

$\rho_0$, $\rho_1$, $\rho_2$, $\rho_3$, $\mu_1$, $\mu_2$, $\delta_1$, $\delta_2$

$\epsilon$, $\rho$, $\rho^2$, $\rho^3$, $\phi$, $\phi\rho^2$, $\phi\rho^3$, $\phi\rho$



**Exercise 16**

6



**Exercise 17**

24



**Exercise 18**

a.

	$\{\rho_0, \rho_1, \rho_2\}$, $\{\rho_0, \rho_1, \rho_2\}$, $\{\rho_0, \mu_1\}$

b.

	TODO



**Exercise 19**

TODO



**Exercise 20**

TODO



**Exercise 36**

$D_6$ is nonabelian (symmetries of a triangle), but its subgroups are isomorphic to one of $Z_3, Z_2, Z_1$.



**Exercise 40-43**

Yes

No

Yes

Yes



**Exercise 44**

The order of $D_n$ is $2n$. There are $n$ rotations and $2$ ways to flip the polygon. Consider the set of all permutations where the polygon does not get flipped. This set is obviously closed, so it is a subgroup of order $n$.



**Exercise 45**

Consider the upper face of this cube. After a rotation, there are 6 possible faces that could be facing up, and 4 rotations for each face, meaning that this group has order 24.



Consider the set of rotations around the x-axis. This set is obviously closed, making it a subgroup. Since a cube has square faces, it has order 4. Likewise for the y-axis and z-axis.



Consider the set of rotations around a fixed 3D diagonal of the cube (one going from a corner to the farthest corner). Since a cube's vertices are adjacent to three faces, this subgroup has order 3. There are 4 such diagonals, so there are 4 such subgroups.



**Exercise 46**

It has been shown in the text that $S_3$ is not abelian. Since $S_n$ where $n\geq 3$ contains $S_3$ as a subgroup, $S_n$ where $n \geq 3$ is not abelian.



**Exercise 47**

If there is an orbit of $\sigma$ of size $\geq 3$, call its elements $a_1,a_2,...,a_n$. Consider the permutation that only swaps $a_1$ and $a_2$ and leaves everything else in-place. By inspection it is obvious that this permutation does not commute with $\sigma$.

If there is no orbit of $\sigma$ of size $\geq 3$, we must be able to pick an orbit of size $2$ because $\sigma \neq \iota$. Call its elements $a_1, a_2$. Since $n\geq3$, there must be at least one element that is not included in this orbit. Call this element $b$. Consider the permutation that only swaps $a_1$ and $b$ and leaves all other elements in place. It is obvious that this permutation does not commute with $\sigma$.

Both of these cases are sufficient to show that there exists no $\sigma \neq \iota$ s.t. $n\geq3$ and $\sigma$ commutes with every other permutation.



OR



For any permutation $\sigma\neq\iota$ of $S_n$, it is possible to construct a permutation $\gamma$ s.t. $\sigma\gamma \neq \gamma\sigma$.

Since $\sigma \neq \iota$, there must exist distinct $a, b$ s.t. $\sigma(a)=b$. Since $n \geq 3$, there must exist $c$ distinct from $a,b$. Consider $\gamma$ such that $\gamma(b)=c, \gamma(c)=b$, and $\gamma(x)=x$ for all other $x$. We see that $\gamma(\sigma(a))=\gamma(b)=c\neq\sigma(\gamma(a))=\sigma(a)=b$.

Therefore, $\sigma$ does not commute with $\gamma$, completing the proof.



**Exercise 48**

We will prove that for every $x\in\mathcal{O}_{y,\sigma}$, $\mathcal{O}_{x,\sigma}=\mathcal{O}_{y,\sigma}$.

By definition, $x=\sigma^n(y)$ for some $n\in\mathbb{Z}$.

We will prove that $z\in\mathcal{O}_{y,\sigma}$ iff $z\in\mathcal{O}_{x,\sigma}$.

$z\in\mathcal{O}_{x,\sigma}\implies z\in\mathcal{O}_{y,\sigma}$ :

By definition, $z=\sigma^m(x)$ for some $m\in\mathbb{Z}$. Substituting, $z=\sigma^m(\sigma^n(y))=\sigma^{m+n}(y)$. Therefore, $z\in\mathcal{O}_{y,\sigma}$.

$z\in\mathcal{O}_{y,\sigma}\implies z\in\mathcal{O}_{x,\sigma}$ :

By definition, $z=\sigma^m(y)$ for some $m\in\mathbb{Z}$. Substituting, $z=\sigma^m(\sigma^{-n}(x))=\sigma^{m-n}(x)$. Therefore, $z\in\mathcal{O}_{x,\sigma}$.

Therefore every element in one orbit is in the other orbit, showing that the two orbits are the same.



To prove the exercise:

Label the common element of the two orbits $c$.

Since $c\in\mathcal{O}_{a,\sigma}$, $\mathcal{O}_{c,\sigma}=\mathcal{O}_{a,\sigma}$.

Since $c\in\mathcal{O}_{b,\sigma}$, $\mathcal{O}_{c,\sigma}=\mathcal{O}_{b,\sigma}$.



**Exercise 49**

List the elements of $A$ as $a_1, a_2,...,a_n$. Consider the permutation defined by $\sigma(a_i)=a_{i+1}$ and $\sigma(a_n)=a_1$.

By inspection, clearly $|\langle\sigma\rangle| = |A|$.

For all $a_i, a_j \in A$ clearly, $\sigma^{j-i}(a_i)=a_j$, showing that $\langle\sigma\rangle$ is transitive on $A$, completing the proof.



**Exercise 50**

Clearly, it is possible to list the elements of $A$ as $\sigma^0(a), \sigma^1(a), \sigma^2(a), ... , \sigma^{n-1}(a)$. For any $x, y \in A$, $x=\sigma^i(a)$ and $y=\sigma^j(a)$. Then, we see that $\sigma^{j-i}(x)=y$, showing that $\langle\sigma\rangle$ is transitive.



**Exercise 51**

a)

Looking at $(a*b)*c=a*(b*c)$ from the other side, someone would see $(c*b)*a=c*(b*a)$

b)

Closure: $\forall a, b \in G'$, $a*'b=b*a\in G$ so $a*'b \in G'$, showing that $G'$ is closed

Associativity: $\forall a, b, c \in G'$,

$(a*b)*c=a*(b*c)$

$(b*'a)*c=a*(c*'b)$

$c*'(b*'a)=(c*'b)*'a$

showing that $G'$ is associative

Identity: $\forall a \in G'$, $e*'a = a*e = a$, $a *' e = e * a = a$, showing that $e$ is an identity for $G'$

Inverse: $\forall a \in G'$, let $b$ be the inverse of $a$ in $G$

$a*b=b*a=e$

$b*'a=a*'b=e$

showing that $b$ is an inverse of $a$ in $G'$.



We can see that $G'$ is indeed a group.



**Exercise 52**

Let $H$ be the group of $\rho_x$ for all $x\in G$ under permutation composition.

We will show that $\phi(x) = \rho_x$ is an isomorphism from $G$ to $H$.



Injectivity and surjectivity are obvious by inspection.

To prove the homomorphism property we will initially show that $\rho_{ab} = \rho_a \rho_b$.

$\rho_{ab}(x)=xab=\rho_a(x)b = \rho_b(\rho_a(x))$, therefore, $\rho_{ab} = \rho_a \rho_b$.



$\phi(xy)=\rho_{xy}$

$\phi(xy)=\rho_x\rho_y$

$\phi(xy)=\phi(x)\phi(y)$

completing the proof.



**Exercise 53**

Clearly, a group of permutations under composition is isomorphic to the group of permutation matrices under matrix multiplication where the matrices are constructed by the permutations in the first group.

a) From Cayley's theorem, we know $G$ is isomorphic to a subgroup of $S_G$. This subgroup is a group of permutations on $n$ elements, so it is isomorphic to a group of $n\times n$ permutation matrices.

b)

$e\to\begin{bmatrix}1&0&0&0 \\ 0&1&0&0 \\ 0&0&1&0 \\ 0&0&0&1\end{bmatrix}$

$a\to\begin{bmatrix}0&1&0&0 \\ 1&0&0&0 \\ 0&0&0&1 \\ 0&0&1&0\end{bmatrix}$

$b\to\begin{bmatrix}0&0&1&0 \\ 0&0&0&1 \\ 1&0&0&0 \\ 0&1&0&0\end{bmatrix}$

$c\to\begin{bmatrix}1&0&0&0 \\ 0&1&0&0 \\ 0&0&1&0 \\ 0&0&0&1\end{bmatrix}$



