$\newcommand{\m}{\mathrm{\textemdash}}$
# Content
**Definition 4.1.1** (Integers)
An integer is an expression of the form $a\m b$ where $a$ and $b$ are natural numbers. Two integers $a\m b$ and $c\m d$ are equal iff $a+d=b+c$.

**Definition 4.1.2**
$(a\m b)+(c\m d):=(a+c)\m(b+d)$ 
$(a\m b)\times(c\m d):=(ac+bd)\m(ad+bc)$

**Lemma 4.1.3** (Addition and multiplication are well-defined)
For integers $a\m b=a'\m b'$ and $c\m d$, $(a\m b)+(c\m d)=(a'\m b')+(c\m d)$ and $(a\m b)\times(c\m d)=(a'\m b')\times(c\m d)$.

**Definition 4.1.4** (Negation of integers)
$-(a\m b)=b\m a$

**Lemma 4.1.5** (Trichotomy of the integers)
Let $x$ be an integer. Precisely one of the following hold: $x$ is zero, $x$ is a positive natural, $x$ the negation of a positive natural.

**Proposition 4.1.6** (Laws of algebra for integers)
**Remark 4.1.7**
The integers form a commutative ring.

**Proposition 4.1.8** (Integers have no zero divisors)
For integers $a,b$ s.t. $ab=0$, at least one of $a=0$ or $b=0$ hold.

**Corollary 4.1.9** (Cancellation law for integers)
Let $a,b,c$ be integers where $c$ is nonzero. $ac=bc$ implies $a=b$.

**Definition 4.1.10** (Ordering of the integers)
For integers $n,m$, $n\geq m$ iff there exists natural $a$ s.t. $n=m+a$. $n>m$ iff $n\geq m$ and $n\neq m$.

**Lemma 4.1.11** (Properties of order)
Let $a,b,c$ be integers
(a) $a>b$ iff $a-b$ is a positive natural.
(b) (Addition preserves order) If $a>b$ then $a+c>b+c$.
(c) (Positive multiplication preserves order) If $a>b$ and $c>0$, then $ac>bc$.
(d) (Negation reverses order) If $a>b$ then $-a<-b$.
(e) (Order is transitive) If $a>b$ and $b>c$ then $a>c$.
(f) (Order trichotomy) Exactly one of $a>b,a<b,a=b$ is true.
# Exercises
###### Exercise 4.1.1
> Verify that the definition of equality on the integers is both reflexive and symmetric.

**Reflexive:** $a+b=b+a$ therefore $a\m b=a\m b$.
**Symmetric:** $a\m b=c\m d$, so $a+d=b+c$, then $c+b=d+a$, finally $c\m d=a\m b$.
###### Exercise 4.1.2
> Show that the definition of negation on the integers is well defined. In other words, show that equal integers have equal negations.


###### Exercise 4.1.3
> Show that $(-1)\times a=-a$ for every integer $a$.

###### Exercise 4.1.4
> Prove the remaining identities in Proposition 4.1.6.

###### Exercise 4.1.5
> Prove Proposition 4.1.8.

###### Exercise 4.1.6
> Prove Corollary 4.1.9.


###### Exercise 4.1.7
> Prove Lemma 4.1.11.


###### Exercise 4.1.8
> Show that the principle of induction does not apply directly to the integers. More precisely, give an example of a property $P(n)$ pertaining to an integer $n$ s.t. $P(0)$ holds and $P(n)$ implies $P(n^+)$ for all integers $n$, but $P(n)$ does not hold for all integers $n$.

Defining $P(n)=n\text{ is a natural number}$ gives a suitable answer. By Axiom 2.1, $P(0)$ holds. By Axiom 2.2, $P(n)$ implies $P(n^+)$. However, $-1$ is an integer, and $P(n)$ does not hold.