# Content
**Definition 3.1.1**
A **set** is an unordered collection of **object**s.

**Axiom 3.1**
Sets are objects.

**Definition 3.1.4**
Two sets are **equal** iff every element of one is also an element of the other.

**Axiom 3.2**
There exists a set $\varnothing$ called the **empty set** that contains no elements.

**Lemma 3.1.6** (Single choice)
For every nonempty set $A$, there exists an object $x$ that is an element of $A$.

**Axiom 3.3** (Singleton sets and pair sets)
If $a$ is an object then there is a set $\{a\}$ that contains only $a$. If $a$ and $b$ are objects, then there exists a set $\{a,b\}$ that contains only $a$ and $b$.

**Axiom 3.4** (Pairwise union)
Given any two sets $A$ and $B$, there exists a set $A\cup B$ called the **union** of $A$ and $B$ consisting of only the elements in either $A$ or $B$ or both.

**Lemma 3.1.13**
If $a$ and $b$ are objects, $\{a,b\}=\{a\}\cup\{b\}$. The union operation is commutative and associative. Also, $A\cup A=A\cup\varnothing=\varnothing\cup A=A$.

**Definition 3.1.15** (Subsets)
For sets $A,B$, we say that $A$ is a **subset** of $B$ (denoted by $A\subseteq B$) iff every element of $A$ is an element of $B$. We say that $A$ is a **proper subset** of $B$ (denoted $A\subsetneq B$) if $A\subseteq B$ and $A\neq B$

**Proposition 3.1.18** (Sets are partially ordered by set inclusion)
Let $A,B,C$ be sets. If $A\subseteq B$ and $B\subseteq C$ then $A\subseteq C$. If $A\subseteq B$ and $B\subseteq A$, then $A=B$. If $A\subsetneq B$ and $B\subsetneq C$ then $A\subsetneq C$.

**Axiom 3.5** (Axiom of specification)
Let $A$ be a set,  and let $P(x)$ be a property pertaining to $x$ for all $x\in A$. Then there exists a set $\{x\in A:P(x)\}$ whose elements are exactly the elements of $A$ that satisfy $P$.

**Definition 3.1.23** (Intersections)
The intersection of two sets $A,B$ is defined as $A\cap B=\{x\in A:x\in B\}$. In other words, $A\cap B$ is the set consisting of objects that are elements of both $A$ and $B$.

**Definition 3.1.27** (Difference sets)
Given two sets $A,B$, we define $A-B$ or $A\backslash B$ to be the $\{x\in A:x\notin B\}$.

**Proposition 3.1.28** (Sets form a boolean algebra)
Let $A,B,C,X$ be sets s.t. $A,B,C$ are subsets of $X$.
(a) (Minimal element) $A\cup\varnothing=A$ and $A\cap\varnothing=\varnothing$.
(b) (Minimal element) $A\cup X=X$ and $A\cap X=A$.
(c) (Identity) $A\cap A=A\cup A=A$.
(d) (Commutativity) $A\cup B=B\cup A$ and $A\cap B=B\cap A$.
(e) (Associativity) $(A\cup B)\cup C=A\cup(B\cup C)$ and $(A\cap B)\cap C=A\cap(B\cap C)$.
(f) (Distributivity) $A\cap(B\cup C)=(A\cap B)\cup(A\cap C)$ and $A\cup(B\cap C)=(A\cup B)\cap(A\cup C)$.
(g) (Partition) $A\cup(X-A)=X$ and $A\cap(X-A)=\varnothing$.
(h) (De Morgan laws) $X-(A\cup B)=(X-A)\cap(X-B)$ and $X-(A\cap B)=(X-A)\cup(X-B)$.

**Axiom 3.6** (Replacement)
Let $A$ be a set. For any $x\in A$ and any object $y$ let $P(x,y)$ be a property pertaining to $x$ and $y$ s.t. for any $x\in A$ there exists at most one $y$ for which $P(x,y)$ holds. Then there exists a set $\{y:P(x,y)\text{ is true for some }x\in A\}$.

**Axiom 3.7** (Infinity)
There exists a set $\N$, whose elements are called the natural numbers, as well as an object $0$ in $\N$ and an object $n^+$ assigned to every $n\in\N$, s.t. the Peano axioms (Axioms 2.1-2.5) hold.
# Exercises
###### Exercise 3.1.1
> Show that the definition of equality in Definition 3.1.4 is reflexive, symmetric and transitive.

Let $A,B,C$ be sets, and let $x$ be any object.
**Reflexive:** $x\in A \iff x\in A$ always holds, so $A=A$.
**Symmetric:** $A=B$, $x\in A\iff x\in B$, $x\in B\iff x\in A$, $B=A$.
**Transitive:** $A=B$ and $B=C$, $x\in A\iff x\in B$ and $x\in B\iff x\in C$, since $\iff$ is transitive $A=C$.
###### Exercise 3.1.2
> Using only Definition 3.1.4 and Axioms 3.1-3.3, show that $A=\varnothing,B=\{\varnothing\},C=\{\{\varnothing\}\}$ and $D=\{\varnothing,\{\varnothing\}\}$ are all distinct.

A-B: $\varnothing\in B$ whereas $\varnothing \notin A$.
A-C: $\{\varnothing\}\in C$ whereas $\{\varnothing\}\notin A$
A-D: $\varnothing\in D$ whereas $\varnothing \notin A$.
B-D: $\{\varnothing\}\in D$ whereas $\{\varnothing\}\notin B$
B-C: $\{\varnothing\}\in C$ whereas $\{\varnothing\}\notin B$
C-D: $\varnothing\in D$ whereas $\varnothing \notin C$.
###### Exercise 3.1.3
> Prove the remaining claims in Lemma 3.1.13.
> $\{a,b\}=\{a\}\cup\{b\}$

Let $a,b$ be objects. By Axiom 3.3, $\{a,b\}$ contains only $a$ and $b$. $x\in\{a,b\}\iff x=a\vee x=b$. By Axiom 3.3 again, $x=a\iff x\in\{a\}$ and likewise for $b$, so we have $x\in\{a,b\}\iff x\in\{a\}\vee x\in\{b\}$. By Axiom 3.4, the RHS is $\{a\}\cup\{b\}$. We have $x\in\{a,b\}\iff x\in\{a\}\cup\{b\}$, showing that $\{a,b\}=\{a\}\cup\{b\}$.

> $A\cup B=B\cup A$ and $A\cup A=A\cup\varnothing=\varnothing\cup A=A$.

Let $A,B$ be sets and $x$ an object.
$A\cup B=B\cup A$:
$$\begin{align}
x\in A\cup B&\iff x\in A \vee x\in B &\quad\text{(Axiom 3.4)}
\\&\iff x\in B \vee x\in A &\quad\text{(Commutativity of disjunction)}
\\&\iff x\in B\cup A &\quad\text{(Axiom 3.4)}
\end{align}$$
$A\cup A=A$:
$$\begin{align}
x\in A\cup A&\iff x\in A \vee x\in A &\quad\text{(Axiom 3.4)}
\\&\iff x\in A &\quad(p\vee p=p)
\end{align}$$
$A\cup \varnothing=A$:
$$\begin{align}
x\in A\cup \varnothing&\iff x\in A \vee x\in \varnothing &\quad\text{(Axiom 3.4)}
\\&\iff x\in A \vee \bot &\quad\text{(Axiom 3.2)}
\\&\iff x\in A &\quad(p\vee\bot=p)
\end{align}$$
$A\cup\varnothing=\varnothing\cup A$: Follows from commutativity.
###### Exercise 3.1.4
> Prove the remaining claims in Proposition 3.1.18.
> If $A\subseteq B$ and $B\subseteq A$ then $A=B$.

Let $x$ be any object.
$$\begin{align}
A\subseteq B\wedge B\subseteq A&\iff (x\in A\implies x\in B)\wedge(x\in B\implies x\in A) &\quad\text{(Definition 3.1.15)}
\\&\iff (x\in A\iff x\in B) &\quad(\text{Definition of}\iff)
\\&\iff A=B &\quad\text{(Definition 3.1.4)}
\end{align}$$

> If $A\subsetneq B$ and $B\subsetneq C$ then $A\subsetneq C$.

Since $\subsetneq$ implies $\subseteq$, from the first claim in Proposition 3.1.18 (that $\subseteq$ is transitive) we have that $A\subseteq C$. It remains to show that $A\neq C$. Since $A\subsetneq B$, there must be an element in one set that is in the other set. Since every element in $A$ is in $B$, it must be that an element of $B$ is not in $A$. Let this element be $x$. We have that $x\notin A$ and $x\in B$. Since $x\in B$ And $B\subseteq C$, $x\in C$. We have $x\notin A$ and $x\in C$, disproving that $x\in A\iff x\in C$ showing that $A\neq C$. This completes the proof.
###### Exercise 3.1.5
> Let $A,B$ be sets. Show that the three statements $A\subseteq B$, $A\cup B=B$, $A\cap B=A$ are all logically equivalent.

$$\begin{align}
A\subseteq B&\iff (x\in A\implies x\in B)
\\&\iff (x\in A\vee x\in B\implies x\in B)
\\&\iff (x\in A\vee x\in B\implies x\in B)\wedge\top
\\&\iff (x\in A\vee x\in B\implies x\in B)\wedge(x\in B\implies x\in B)
\\&\iff (x\in A\vee x\in B\implies x\in B)\wedge(x\in B\implies x\in A\vee x\in B)
\\&\iff (x\in A\cup B\implies x\in B)\wedge(x\in B\implies x\in A\cup B)
\\&\iff (x\in A\cup B\iff x\in B)
\\&\iff A\cup B=B
\\ A\cup B=B&\iff A\subseteq B
\\&\iff (x\in A\implies x\in B)
\\&\iff (x\in A\implies x\in A\wedge x\in B)
\\&\iff (x\in A\implies x\in A\wedge x\in B)\wedge\top
\\&\iff (x\in A\implies x\in A\wedge x\in B)\wedge(x\in A\implies x\in A)
\\&\iff (x\in A\implies x\in A\wedge x\in B)\wedge(x\in A\wedge x\in B\implies x\in A)
\\&\iff (x\in A\iff x\in A\wedge x\in B)
\\&\iff A=A\cap B
\end{align}$$
###### Exercise 3.1.6
> Prove Proposition 3.1.28.
> (a) $A\cup\varnothing=A$ and $A\cap\varnothing=\varnothing$

The first statement is proved in Lemma 3.1.13.
$A\cap\varnothing$ by Definition 3.1.23 consists of objects in both $A$ and $\varnothing$. Since by Axiom 3.2 there are no elements in $\varnothing$, there are no elements in $A\cup\varnothing$. This shows that an object in one is also in the other (since there are no such objects), completing the proof.

> (b) $A\cup X=X$ and $A\cap X=A$

Since $A\subseteq X$, we can obtain both these statements from Exercise 3.1.5.

> (c) $A\cap A=A\cup A=A$

Since $A\subseteq A$, we again obtain both equivalences from Exercise 3.1.5.

> (d) $A\cup B=B\cup A$ and $A\cap B=B\cap A$

The first statement is proved in Lemma 3.1.13.
$$\begin{align}
x\in A\cap B&\iff x\in A \wedge x\in B &\quad\text{(Definition 3.1.23)}
\\&\iff x\in B \wedge x\in A &\quad\text{(Commutativity of conjunction)}
\\&\iff x\in B\cap A &\quad\text{(Definition 3.1.23)}
\end{align}$$
This shows that $A\cap B=B\cap A$.

> (e) $(A\cup B)\cup C=A\cup(B\cup C)$ and $(A\cap B)\cap C=A\cap(B\cap C)$.

The first statement is proved in Lemma 3.1.13.
$$\begin{align}
x\in (A\cap B)\cap C&\iff x\in A\cap B \wedge x\in C &\quad\text{(Definition 3.1.23)}
\\&\iff (x\in A\wedge x\in B) \wedge x\in C &\quad\text{(Definition 3.1.23)}
\\&\iff x\in A\wedge (x\in B \wedge x\in C) &\quad\text{(Associativity of conjunction)}
\\&\iff x\in A\wedge x\in B \cap C &\quad\text{(Definition 3.1.23)}
\\&\iff x\in A\cap (B \cap C) &\quad\text{(Definition 3.1.23)}
\end{align}$$
This shows that $(A\cap B)\cap C=A\cap(B\cap C)$.

> (f) $A\cap(B\cup C)=(A\cap B)\cup(A\cap C)$ and $A\cup(B\cap C)=(A\cup B)\cap(A\cup C)$.
> (g) $A\cup(X-A)=X$ and $A\cap(X-A)=\varnothing$.
> (h) $X-(A\cup B)=(X-A)\cap(X-B)$ and $X-(A\cap B)=(X-A)\cup(X-B)$.

TODO
###### Exercise 3.1.7
> Let $A,B,C$ be sets. Show that $A\cap B\subseteq A$ and $A\cap B \subseteq B$.

$A\cap B$ consists of objects in both $A$ and $B$. This means that every object in $A\cap B$ is in $A$, which shows $A\cap B\subseteq A$.
$A\cap B=B\cap A$ by 3.1.28(d), so we have $B\cap A\subseteq A$, which shows the second statement but with different labels.

> Show that $C\subseteq A$ and $C\subseteq B$ iff $C\subseteq A\cap B$.

$\implies$: We have from $C\subseteq A$ that every element of $C$ is an element of $A$. Similarly from $C\subseteq B$ we have that every element of $C$ is an element of $B$. Since every element of $C$ is both an element of $A$ and $B$, we have $C\subseteq A\cap B$
$\impliedby$: We have that every element of $C$ is an element of $A\cap B$, which means that these elements are in both $A$ and $B$. Since every element of $C$ is an element of $A$, we have $C\subseteq A$. Likewise, we have $C\subseteq B$.

> Show that $A\subseteq A\cup B$ and $B\subseteq A\cup B$.

Elements that are in either $A$ or $B$ or both are in $A\cup B$ by definition. Elements of $A$ satisfy this condition, so all elements of $A$ are in $A\cup B$, meaning $A\subseteq A\cup B$. Elements of $B$ also satisfy this condition, so all elements of $B$ are in $A\cup B$, meaning $B\subseteq A\cup B$.

> Show that $A\subseteq C$ and $B\subseteq C$ iff $A\cup B\subseteq C$.

$\implies$: We have that all elements of $A$ are in $C$. We also have that all elements of $B$ are in $C$. Let $x\in A\cup B$. If $x\in A$, then $x\in C$. If $x\in B$, then $x\in C$. There are no other cases, so $x\in C$ for all $x\in A\cup B$. This shows $A\cup B\subseteq C$.
$\impliedby$: We have that elements of $A\cup B$ are elements of $C$. This means objects that are in at least one of $A,B$ are in $C$. Elements of $A$ satisfy this condition, so they are in $C$, meaning $A\subseteq C$. Likewise, elements of $B$ satisfy the condition as well, meaning that they are also in $C$, so $B\subseteq C$.
###### Exercise 3.1.8
> Let $A,B$ be sets. Show $A\cap(A\cup B)=A$.

$A\subseteq A$ by Proposition 3.1.28(c) and $A\subseteq A\cup B$ by Exercise 3.1.7. Combining these two statements using Exercise 3.1.7 again, we have $A\subseteq A\cap(A\cup B)$. By Exercise 3.1.7 we have $A\cup(A\cap B)\subseteq A$. Now, Proposition 3.1.18 gives $A\cap(A\cup B)=A$.

> Show $A\cup(A\cap B)=A$.

We have $A\cap B\subseteq A$ by Exercise 3.1.7. We also have $A\subseteq A$ by Proposition 3.1.28(c). Combining these two statements with Exercise 3.1.7 we have $A\cup(A\cap B)\subseteq A$. We also have $A\subseteq A\cup(A\cap B)$ by Exercise 3.1.7. Combining the last two statements with Proposition 3.1.18 gives us $A\cup(A\cap B)=A$.
###### Exercise 3.1.9
> Let $A,B,X$ be sets s.t. $A\cup B=X$ and $A\cap B=\varnothing$. Show that $A=X-B$ and $B=X-A$.

By Definition 3.1.15 we have $A\cup B\subseteq X$. By Exercise 3.1.7 we have $A\subseteq X$ and $B\subseteq X$.
Let $x\in A$. If $x$ were in $B$, then it would be in $A\cap B$ by Definition 3.1.23. However, $A\cap B=\varnothing$, which by Axiom 3.2 has no elements. Such an $x$ cannot exist, therefore there is no $x\in A$ that is also $\in B$. Since elements of $A$ are in $X$ and not in $B$, by Definition 3.1.27 it follows that elements of $A$ are in $X-B$. This means $A\subseteq X-B$.
Let $x\in X-B$. By Definition 3.1.27, $x\in X$ and $x\notin B$. If $x\notin A$, then $x\notin A\cup B$ by the contrapositive of Axiom 3.4. However, we have $x\in X$, so this contradicts that $A\cup B=X$, as it means that there is an element in $X$ that is not in $A\cup B$. This cannot be, therefore $x$ must be in $A$. This means elements of $X-B$ are elements of $A$, so $X-B\subseteq A$.
We have $A\subseteq X-B$ and $X-B\subseteq A$. By Proposition 3.1.18, we have $A=X-B$.

The second statement, $B=X-A$, is symmetric to the first, so it follows without loss of generality.
###### Exercise 3.1.10
> Let $A,B$ be sets. Show that $A-B$, $A\cap B$, $B-A$ are all disjoint, and that their union is $A\cup B$.

Elements of $A-B$ are $\in A$ and $\notin B$ by Definition 3.1.27.
Elements of $B-A$ are $\notin A$ and $\in B$ by Definition 3.1.27.
Elements of $A\cap B$ are $\in A$ and $\in B$ by Definition 3.1.23.
If an element is in $A-B$, it is $\in A$. It cannot be in $B-A$ because elements of $B-A$ are $\notin A$.
If an element is in $A-B$, it is $\notin B$. It cannot be in $A\cap B$ because elements of $A\cap B$ are $\in B$.
If an element is in $B-A$, it is $\in B$. It cannot be in $A-B$ because elements of $A-B$ are $\notin B$.
If an element is in $B-A$, it is $\notin A$. It cannot be in $A\cap B$ because elements of $A\cap B$ are $\in A$.
If an element is in $A\cap B$, it is $\in A$. It cannot be in $B-A$ because elements of $B-A$ are $\notin A$.
If an element is in $A\cap B$, it is $\in B$. It cannot be in $A-B$ because elements of $A-B$ are $\notin B$.
These statements show that $A-B$, $B-A$, and $A\cap B$ are all disjoint.

Elements of $A\cup B$ are in either $A$ or $B$ or both. In the first case, it is an element of $A-B$. In the second case, it is an element of $B-A$. In the third, it is an element of $A\cap B$. Combining these statements using Exercise 3.1.7, we have $A\cup B\subseteq (A-B)\cup(B-A)\cup(A\cap B)$.
Since elements of $A-B$ are in $A$, they are in $A\cup B$. Elements of $B-A$ are in $B$, so they are also in $A\cap B$. Elements of $A\cap B$ are elements of $A$, so they are in $A\cup B$. Combining these statements using Exercise 3.1.7, we have $(A-B)\cup(B-A)\cup(A\cap B)\subseteq A\cup B$.
Combining $A\cup B\subseteq (A-B)\cup(B-A)\cup(A\cap B)$ and $(A-B)\cup(B-A)\cup(A\cap B)\subseteq A\cup B$ using Proposition 3.1.18, we have $(A-B)\cup(B-A)\cup(A\cap B)=A\cup B$, completing the proof.
###### Exercise 3.1.11
> Show that the axiom of replacement implies the axiom of specification.

Let $A$ be a set. We want to prove that for any property $P(x)$ pertaining to elements of $A$ that there exists a set consisting of elements of $A$ that satisfy $P$.
Let $Q(x,y)$ be a property pertaining to $x\in A$ and objects $y$, such that $Q(x, y)$ holds iff both $x=y$ and $P(x)$ hold. For any $x\in A$, there is at most one $y$ that satisfies $Q(x,y)$, since $y$ must equal $x$ and there is only one object that equals $x$, which is itself. This makes it suitable to use with the axiom of replacement.
Applying replacement, consider $S=\{y:Q(x,y)\text{ is true for some }x\in A\}$. Since $Q(x,y)$ holds only for $x=y$, $S$ can be restated as $S=\{x:Q(x,x)\}=\{x:P(x)\}$, which is the set we wanted to obtain.