# Content

**Definition 3.3.1** (Functions)

Let $X,Y$ be sets, and $P(x,y)$ pertaining to $x\in X$ and $y\in Y$ s.t. for any $x\in X$ there is exactly one $y\in Y$ for which $P(x,y)$ holds. We define the **function $f:X\to Y$ defined by $P$ on the domain $X$ and range $Y$** to be the object which given an input $x\in X$ assigns an output $f(x)\in Y$, the unique object for which $P(x,f(x))$ holds.



**Definition 3.3.7** (Equality of functions)

Two functions $f:X\to Y$, $g:X\to Y$ are **equal**, $f=g$, iff $f(x)=g(x)$ for all $x\in X$.



**Definition 3.3.10** (Composition)

Let $f:X\to Y$ and $g:Y\to Z$. We define the **composition** $g\circ f:X\to Z$ to be $(g\circ f)(x):=g(f(x))$.



**Lemma 3.3.12** (Composition is associative)

Let $f:Z\to W$, $g:Y\to Z$ and $h:X\to Y$ be functions. Then $(f\circ g)\circ h=f\circ(g\circ h)$.



**Definition 3.3.14** (One-to-one functions)

A function $f$ is one-to-one if $x\neq y\implies f(x)\neq f(y)$.



**Definition 3.3.17** (Onto functions)

A function $f$ is surjective if $f(X)=Y$, i.e. for every $y\in Y$ there exists $x\in X$ s.t. $f(x)=y$.



**Definition 3.3.20** (Bijective functions)

A function is invertible if it is both surjective and injective.



If $f:X\to Y$ is bijective, then for every $y\in Y$ there is exactly one $x\in X$ s.t. $f(x)=y$. This value of $x$ is denoted $f^{-1}(y)$, and $f^{-1}$ is a function $Y\to Z$, called its inverse.

# Exercises

###### Exercise 3.3.1

> Show that Definition 3.3.7 is reflexive, symmetric and transitive.



We first note that functions obey the axiom of substitution, i.e. $x=y\implies f(x)=f(y)$



Let $f,g,h:X\to Y$ be functions s.t. $f=g$ and $g=h$, and let $x$ be any element of $X$.

**Reflexive:** Since $f(x)$ is an object and equality on objects is reflexive, $f(x)=f(x)$. By Definition 3.3.7, $f=f$.

**Symmetric:** Since $f=g$, we have $f(x)=g(x)$. Equality on objects is symmetric, so $g(x)=f(x)$. This gives $g=f$ by Definition 3.3.7.

**Transitive:** Since $f=g$, we have $f(x)=g(x)$. Since $g(x)=h(x)$. Because equality on objects is transitive we have $f(x)=h(x)$, giving $f=h$ by Definition 3.3.7.



> Show that for $f,\tilde{f}:X\to Y$ and $g,\tilde{g}:Y\to Z$ s.t. $f=\tilde{f}$ and $g=\tilde{g}$, $g\circ f=\tilde{g}\circ\tilde{f}$.



Let $x\in X$. Since $f=\tilde{f}$, we have $f(x)=\tilde{f}(x)$. Label this object $y$. Since $g=\tilde{g}$, we have $g(y)=\tilde{g}(y)$. Substituting, we get $g(f(x))=\tilde{g}(\tilde{f}(x))$. Since our choice of $x$ was arbitrary, $g\circ f=\tilde{g}\circ\tilde{f}$.

###### Exercise 3.3.2

> Let $f:X\to Y$, $g:Y\to Z$. Show that if $f$ and $g$ are injective, $g\circ f$ is injective.



Let $a,b\in X$ s.t. $a\neq b$. Since $f$ is injective, $f(a)\neq f(b)$. Since $g$ is injective, $g(f(a))\neq g(f(b))$. $(g\circ f)(a)\neq(g\circ f)(b)$, so $g\circ f$ is injective.



> Show that if $f$ and $g$ are surjective, $g\circ f$ is surjective.



Let $z\in Z$. Since $g$ is surjective, there exists $y\in Y$ s.t. $g(y)=z$. Since $f$ is surjective, there exists $x$ s.t. $f(x)=y$. Substituting, we have $g(f(x))=z=(g\circ f)(x)$ showing that $g\circ f$ is surjective.

###### Exercise 3.3.3

> When is the empty function injective? surjective? bijective?



Let $f:\varnothing\to X$ be an empty function. It is vacuously injective. It is surjective iff $X=\varnothing$. It is also bijective iff $X=\varnothing$.

###### Exercise 3.3.4

> Let $f,\tilde{f}:X\to Y$ and $g,\tilde{g}:Y\to Z$. Show that if $g\circ f=g\circ\tilde{f}$ and $g$ is injective, then $f=\tilde{f}$.



Let $x\in X$. Since $g\circ f=g\circ\tilde{f}$, $(g\circ f)(x)=(g\circ\tilde{f})(x)=g(f(x))=g(\tilde{f}(x))$. Since $g$ is injective, $g(f(x))=g(\tilde{f}(x))$ means $f(x)=\tilde{f}(x)$. Our choice of $x$ was arbitrary, so $f=\tilde{f}$.



> Is the same statement true if $g$ is not injective?



Let $X=Y=\{0,1\}$ and $Z=\{0\}$. Let $f(x)=x$ and $\tilde{f}(x)=1-x$ for all $x\in X$.

Let $y\in Y$. $g(y)=0$ since $0$ is the only option in the range, therefore $g\circ f$ and $g\circ \tilde{f}$ both give $0$ for all $x\in X$, meaning $g\circ f=g\circ\tilde{f}$. However, $f(0)=0\neq\tilde{f}(0)=1$ so $f\neq\tilde{f}$, showing the implication does not hold.



> Show that if $g\circ f=\tilde{g}\circ f$ and $f$ is surjective, $g=\tilde{g}$.



Let $y\in Y$. Since $f$ is surjective, there exists $x\in X$ s.t. $f(x)=y$. Since $g\circ f=\tilde{g}\circ f$, we have $(g\circ f)(x)=(\tilde{g}\circ f)(x)=g(f(x))=\tilde{g}(f(x))$. Substituting, $g(y)=\tilde{g}(y)$. Our choice of $y$ was arbitrary, therefore $g=\tilde{g}$.



> Is the same statement true if $f$ is not surjective?



Let $X=\{0\}$ and $Y=Z=\{0,1\}$. Let $f(0)=1$, $g(y)=y$ and $\tilde{g}(x)=1$ for all $y\in X$. $(g\circ f)(0)=(\tilde{g}\circ f)(0)=1$ and $0$ is the only element in $X$ so $g\circ f=\tilde{g}\circ f$. However, $g(0)=0\neq\tilde{g}(0)=1$ so $g\neq\tilde{g}$, disproving the implication.

###### Exercise 3.3.5

> Let $f:X\to Y$ and $g:Y\to Z$. Show that if $g\circ f$ is injective then $f$ is injective.



Let $a,b\in X$ s.t. $a\neq b$. Since $g\circ f$ is injective, $(g\circ f)(a)\neq(g\circ f)(b)$ meaning $g(f(a))\neq g(f(b))$. Since the same input cannot lead to different outputs, we have $f(a)\neq f(b)$, showing that $f$ is injective.



> Is it true that $g$ must also be injective?



Let $X=Z=\{0\}$ and $Y=\{0,1\}$. $g\circ f$ has only one object in its domain, therefore it is injective since there are no two different inputs that lead to the same output. However, $g$ is not injective since $g(0)=g(1)=0$. It need not hold that $g$ is injective.



> Show that if $g\circ f$ is surjective, then $g$ must be surjective.



Let $z\in Z$. Since $g\circ f$ is surjective, there must exist $x\in X$ s.t. $(g\circ f)(x)=z$. $z=g(f(x))$. $f(x)$ is an input for which $g$ outputs $z$, and since our choice of $z$ was arbitrary in the range of $g$, we have that $g$ is surjective.



> Is it true that $f$ must also be surjective?



Let $X=Z=\{0\}$ and $Y=\{0,1\}$. Let $f$ be s.t. $f(0)=0$. $(g\circ f)(0)=0$, and since $0$ is the only element in the range of $g\circ f$, it is surjective. However, $1$ is in $f$'s range and the only element in its domain maps to $0$, meaning there is no input that $f$ maps to $1$, showing that it is not surjective. It need not hold that $f$ is surjective.

###### Exercise 3.3.6

> Let $f:X\to Y$ be a bijective function, and let $f^{-1}:Y\to X$ be its inverse. Verify the cancellation laws $f^{-1}(f(x))=x$ for all $x\in X$ and $f(f^{-1}(y))=y$ for all $y\in Y$.



Let $x\in X$. Let $y=f(x)$. Let $x'=f^{-1}(y)$. By the definition of the inverse function, $x'$ is the one element that is mapped to $y$ by $f$, i.e. $f(x')=y$. Substituting, we have $f(x')=f(x)$. Since $f$ is bijective, it is injective, giving us $x'=x$. Substituting, we have $f^{-1}(f(x))=x$, showing the first law.



Let $y\in Y$. Let $x=f^{-1}(y)$, and $y'=f(x)$. By definition, $x$ is the one element that is mapped to $y$ by $f$, meaning $f(x)=y$. Substituting, we have $y=y'$. Substituting again, we have $f(f^{-1}(y))=y$, showing the second law.



> Conclude that $f^{-1}$ is also invertible, and has $f$ as its inverse (i.e. $(f^{-1})^{-1}=f$).



**Injective:** Let $y_1,y_2\in Y$ s.t. $y_1\neq y_2$. Let $x_1=f^{-1}(y_1)$ and $x_2=f^{-1}(y_2)$, meaning $f(x_1)=y_1$ and $f(x_2)=y_2$. Substituting into $y_1\neq y_2$, we have $f(x_1)\neq f(x_2)$. Since $f$ is injective, we have $x_1\neq x_2$. Substituting, we have $f^{-1}(y_1)\neq f^{-1}(y_2)$, showing that $f^{-1}$ is injective.

**Surjective:** Let $x\in X$. Let $y=f(x)$. $f^{-1}(f(x))=x$ by the cancellation law above. Substituting, we have $f^{-1}(y)=x$, showing that $f^{-1}$ is surjective.

**Inverse:** Let $y\in Y$. Let $x=f^{-1}(y)$. Since $y$ is the element mapped to $x$ by $f^{-1}$, we have $(f^{-1})^{-1}(x)=y$. By the definition of $x$, we have $y=f(x)$. Substituting, we have $(f^{-1})^{-1}(x)=f(x)$. Since our choice of $x$ was arbitrary, we have $(f^{-1})^{-1}=f$, showing that $f$ is the inverse of $f^{-1}$.

###### Exercise 3.3.7

> Let $f:X\to Y$ and $g:Y\to X$ be functions. Show that if $f$ and $g$ are bijective, then so is $g\circ f$.



**Injective:** Let $x_1,x_2\in X$ s.t. $x_1\neq x_2$. Since $f$ is injective, we have $f(x_1)\neq f(x_2)$. Since $g$ is injective, we have $g(f(x_1))\neq g(f(x_2))$. By the definition of composition, we have $(g\circ f)(x_1)\neq(g\circ f)(x_2)$, showing that $g\circ f$ is injective.

**Surjective:** Let $z\in Z$. Since $g$ is surjective, there exists a $y\in Y$ s.t. $g(y)=z$. Since $f$ is surjective, there exists an $x\in X$ s.t. $f(x)=y$. Substituting, we have $g(f(x))=z=(g\circ f)(x)$, showing that $g\circ f$ is surjective.



> Show that $(g\circ f)^{-1}=f^{-1}\circ g^{-1}$.



Let $z\in Z$. Let $x=(g\circ f)^{-1}(z)$ and $x'=(f^{-1}\circ g^{-1})(z)$. By definition, we have $(g\circ f)(x)=z$, so $g(f(x))=z$. We also have $f^{-1}(g^{-1}(z))=x'$ by definition. Substituting $g(f(x))$ for $z$, we have $f^{-1}(g^{-1}(g(f(x))))=x'$. By cancellation, $g^{-1}(g(f(x)))=f(x)$, so we have $f^{-1}(f(x))=x'$. By cancellation again, we have $x=x'$, showing $(g\circ f)^{-1}=f^{-1}\circ g^{-1}$.

###### Exercise 3.3.8

> If $X$ is a subset of $Y$, let $\iota_{X\to Y}:X\to Y$ be the **inclusion map from $X$ to $Y$**, defined by mapping $x\mapsto x$ for all $x\in X$, i.e. $\iota_{X\to Y}(x)=x$. The map $\iota_{X\to X}$ in particular is called the **identity map on $X$**.

> (a) Show that if $X\subseteq Y\subseteq Z$ then $\iota_{Y\to Z}\circ\iota_{X\to Y}=\iota_{X\to Z}$.



Let $x\in X$. Let $z=(\iota_{Y\to Z}\circ\iota_{X\to Y})(x)$ and $z'=\iota_{X\to Z}(x)$. By definition we have $z'=x$ and $z=\iota_{Y\to Z}(\iota_{X\to Y}(x))$, and $z=\iota_{Y\to Z}(x)$, and finally $z=x$. Substituting, we have $z'=z$, showing that $\iota_{Y\to Z}\circ\iota_{X\to Y}=\iota_{X\to Z}$.



> (b) Show that if $f:A\to B$ is any function, then $f=f\circ\iota_{A\to A}=\iota_{B\to B}\circ f$.



Let $a\in A$. Let $b=f(a)$, $b'=(f\circ\iota_{A\to A})(a)$, and $b''=(\iota_{B\to B}\circ f)(a)$. We have $b'=f(\iota_{A\to A}(a))=f(a)$. We also have $b''=\iota_{B\to B}(f(a))=f(a)$. This shows $b=b'=b''$, meaning $f=f\circ\iota_{A\to A}=\iota_{B\to B}\circ f$.



> (c) Show that if $f:A\to B$ is a bijective function, then $f\circ f^{-1}=\iota_{B\to B}$ and $f^{-1}\circ f=\iota_{A\to A}$.



Let $b\in B$. $(f\circ f^{-1})(b)=f(f^{-1}(b))=b$ by the definition of composition and cancellation respectively. We also have $\iota_{B\to B}(b)=b$ by the definition of $\iota$. Substituting, we have $(f\circ f^{-1})(b)=\iota_{B\to B}(b)$, showing that $f\circ f^{-1}=\iota_{B\to B}$.



Let $a\in B$. $(f^{-1}\circ f)(a)=f^{-1}(f(a))=a$ by the definition of composition and cancellation respectively. We also have $\iota_{A\to A}(a)=a$ by the definition of $\iota$. Substituting, we have $(f^{-1}\circ f)(a)=\iota_{A\to A}(a)$, showing that $f^{-1}\circ f=\iota_{A\to A}$.



> (d) Show that if $X$ and $Y$ are disjoint sets and $f:X\to Z$ and $g:Y\to Z$ are functions, then there is a unique function $h:X\cup Y\to Z$ s.t. $h\circ\iota_{X\to X\cup Y}=f$ and $h\circ\iota_{Y\to X\cup Y}=g$.



Let $h:X\cup Y\to Z$ s.t. for $a\in X\cup Y$, $h(a):=f(a)$ if $a\in X$ and $h(a):=g(a)$ if $a\in Y$. Note that $h$ is well defined because both conditions cannot be true at the same time since $X$ and $Y$ are disjoint. At the same time, at least one condition must be true to the definition of $X\cup Y$.

Let $x\in X$. We have $h(x)=f(x)$ from the definition of $h$, and $h(\iota_{X\to X\cup Y}(x))=f(x)$ from the definition of $\iota$. $(h\circ\iota_{X\to X\cup Y})(x)=f(x)$ by the definition of composition, and $h\circ\iota_{X\to X\cup Y}=f$.

Let $y\in Y$. We have $h(y)=g(y)$, $h(\iota_{Y\to X\cup Y}(y))=g(y)$, $(h\circ\iota_{Y\to X\cup Y})(y)=g(y)$, and $h\circ\iota_{Y\to X\cup Y}=g$.



Note that it makes sense to speak of these function equalities since the domains and ranges are the same.



