# Content

**Definition 3.4.1** (Images of sets)

Let $f:X\in Y$ and $S\subseteq X$. We define $f(S):=\{f(x):x\in S\}$, called the **image** of $S$ under $f$. Note that $f(S)\subseteq Y$, and that $f(S)$ is well-defined due to the axiom of replacement. It can also be defined using the axiom of specification, the set of all $y\in Y$ for which there exists $x$ s.t. $f(x)=y$.



**Definition 3.4.4** (Inverse images)

If $U$ is a subset of $Y$, we define $f^{-1}(U):=\{x\in X:f(x)\in U\}$, called the **inverse image** of $U$. In other words, this is the set of all $x$ that are mapped into $U$ by $f$.



**Example 3.4.6**

Note that images and inverse images do not necessarily invert each other. For instance, for $f:\Z\to \Z$ given by $f(x)=x^2$ we have $f^{-1}(f(\{-1,0,1,2\}))=\{-2,-1,0,1,2\}$.



**Axiom 3.10** (Power set)

Let $X$ and $Y$ be sets. Then  there exists a set denoted $Y^X$ consisting of all functions $X\to Y$.



**Lemma 3.4.9**

Let $X$ be a set. Then $\{Y:Y\subseteq X\}$ is a set.



**Remark 3.4.10**

The set in Lemma 3.4.9 is called the **power set** of $X$ and is denoted $2^Y$.



**Axiom 3.11** (Union)

Let $A$ be a set s.t. all of its elements are sets. There exists a set $\bigcup A$ consisting of all elements of elements of $A$. In other words, $x\in\bigcup A$ iff for some $S\in A$, $x\in S$.



**(3.3)**

$\bigcap_{\alpha\in I}A_\alpha:=\{x\in A_\beta:x\in A_\alpha\ \forall\alpha\in I\}$

# Exercises

###### Exercise 3.4.1

> Let $f:X\to Y$ be a bijective function, and let $f^{-1}:Y\to X$ be its inverse. Let $V\subseteq Y$. Prove that the forward image of $V$ under $f^{-1}$ is the same set as the inverse image of $V$ under $f$. Thus the fact that both sets are denoted by $f^{-1}(V)$ will not lead to any inconsistency.



Let $A$ be the forward image of $V$ under $f^{-1}$ and let $B$ be the inverse image of $V$ under $f$.

Let $x\in A$. By the definition of forward image there exists some $y\in V$ s.t. $f^{-1}(y)=x$. Applying $f$ to both sides, we have $f(f^{-1}(y))=f(x)$. By the cancellation law, we have $y=f(x)$. Since $y\in V$, we have $f(x)\in V$, meaning that $f$ maps $x$ into $V$, showing that $x$ is in the inverse image of $V$ under $f$, so $x\in B$.

Let $x\in B$. By the definition of inverse image there exists some $y\in V$ s.t. $f(x)=y$. Applying $f^{-1}$ to both sides and applying cancellation on the left side, we have $x=f^{-1}(y)$. This means $x$ is in the forward image of $V$ under $f^{-1}$, so $x\in A$.

We have shown both $x\in A\implies x\in B$ and $x\in B\implies x\in A$, so we have $A=B$.

###### Exercise 3.4.2

> Let $f:X\to Y$, $S\subseteq X$ and $U\subseteq Y$. What can one say about $f^{-1}(f(S))$ and $S$?



We will show that $S\subseteq f^{-1}(f(S))$. Let $x\in S$. By the definition of the forward image, $f(x)\in f(S)$, showing that $f$ maps $x$ into $f(S)$, which is precisely what it means to be in the inverse image of $f(S)$ under $f$, i.e. $x\in f^{-1}(f(x))$. This completes the proof.



> What about $f(f^{-1}(U))$ and $U$?



We will show that $f(f^{-1}(U))\subseteq U$. Since $f(f^{-1}(U))=\{f(x):x\in f^{-1}(U)\}$, it suffices to show that $f(x)\in U$ for all $x\in f^{-1}(U)$. By the definition of the inverse image, we know that $f$ is mapped into $U$ by $f$, which is precisely equivalent to that $f(x)\in U$, completing the proof.

###### Exercise 3.4.3

> Let $A,B$ be subsets of $X$, and let $f:X\to Y$. Show that $f(A\cap B)\subseteq f(A)\cap f(B)$.



Elements of $f(A\cap B)$ are $f(x)$ for $x\in A\cap B$. $x\in A$, so $f(x)\in f(A)$. Likewise, $f(x)\in f(B)$, therefore $f(x)\in f(A)\cap f(B)$, showing that $f(A\cap B)\subseteq f(A)\cap f(B)$.



> Show that $f(A)-f(B)\subseteq f(A-B)$.



Let $y\in f(A)-f(B)$. We have $y\in f(A)$ and $y\notin f(B)$. There exists some $x\in A$ s.t. $f(x)=y$. If it were that $x\in B$, we'd have $f(x)\in f(B)$, which would mean $y\notin f(B)$, which is a contradiction. Therefore we have that $x\notin B$. This leads to $x\in A-B$, $f(x)\in f(A-B)$, meaning $y\in f(A-B)$, completing the proof.



> Show that $f(A\cup B)=f(A)\cup f(B)$.



$\subseteq$: Let $y\in f(A\cup B)$. There exists $x\in A\cup B$ s.t. $f(x)=y$. We have $x\in A\vee x\in B$. In the first case, $x\in A$ so $f(x)\in f(A)$ so $y\in f(A)$ and $y\in f(A)\cup f(B)$. In the second case, $x\in B$, $f(x)\in f(B)$, $y\in f(B)$, $y\in f(A)\cup f(B)$. In all cases we have $y\in f(A)\cup f(B)$, showing that $f(A\cup B)\subseteq f(A)\cup f(B)$.

$\supseteq$: Let $y\in f(A)\cup f(B)$. We have $y\in f(A)\vee y\in f(B)$. In the first case, $y\in f(A)$ so there exists $x\in A$ s.t. $f(x)=y$. $x\in A\cup B$, so $f(x)\in f(A\cup B)$ and $y\in f(A\cup B)$. In the second case, $y\in f(B)$, there exists $x\in B$ s.t. $y=f(x)$, $x\in A\cup B$ so $f(x)\in f(A\cup B)$, $y\in f(A\cup B)$. In all cases we have $y\in f(A\cup B)$, meaning $f(A)\cup f(B)\subseteq f(A\cup B)$.

We have shown the two sets to be subsets of each other, therefore they are the same set.



> Is it true that $f(A\cap B)=f(A)\cap f(B)$?



If $f$ is injective.

$\subseteq$: Already proven.

$\supseteq$: Let $y\in f(A)\cap f(B)$. We have both $y\in f(A)$ and $y\in f(B)$. We have some $x_A\in A$ for which $f(x_A)=y$, and some $x_B\in B$ for which $f(x_B)=y$. We have $f(x_A)=f(x_B)$, and since $f$ is injective, we have $x_A=x_B$, showing that $x_A\in B$. Let $x=x_A$. We have $x\in A$ and $x\in B$, so $x\in A\cap B$. $f(x)\in f(A\cap B)$, so $y\in f(A\cap B)$.



If we permit $f$ to be noninjective, there exist $x_1,x_2\in X$ s.t. $x_1\neq x_2$ and $f(x_1)=f(x_2)$. Label $y=f(x_1)$. Let $A=\{x_1\}$ and $B=\{x_2\}$. $A\cap B=\varnothing$, so $f(A\cap B)=\varnothing$. However, $x_1\in A$ so $f(x_1)\in f(A)$ and $x_2\in B$ so $f(x_2)\in f(B)$. Since $y=f(x_1)=f(x_2)$ we have $y\in f(A)$ and $y\in f(B)$. $y\in f(A)\cap f(B)$, and since $y\notin f(A\cap B)=\varnothing$, $f(A\cap B)\neq f(A)\cap f(B)$, giving us a counterexample.



> Is it true that $f(A)-f(B)=f(A-B)$?



Again, if $f$ is injective.

$\subseteq$: Proven.

$\supseteq$: Let $y\in f(A-B)$. There exists $x\in A-B$ s.t. $f(x)=y$. $x\in A$ so $y\in f(A)$, and $x\notin B$. If it were that $y\in f(B)$, there would exist $x'\in B$ s.t. $f(x')=y$. Since $x'\in B$ and $x\notin B$ we have $x'\neq x$, however $f(x)=y=f(x')$, contradicting that $f$ is injective. This gives us $y\notin f(B)$, so we have $y\in f(A)-f(B)$.



Otherwise, there exists $x_1,x_2\in X$ s.t. $x_1\neq x_2$ and $f(x_1)=f(x_2)$. Let $A=\{x_1,x_2\}$, $B=\{x_2\}$ and $y=f(x_1)=f(x_2)$. $A-B=\{x_1\}$, so $y\in f(A-B)$. $f(A)=f(B)=\{y\}$ so $f(A)-f(B)=\varnothing$, and since $y\notin \varnothing$, $f(A)-f(B)\neq f(A-B)$, a counterexample.

###### Exercise 3.4.4

> Let $f:X\to Y$, $U\subseteq Y$ and $V\subseteq Y$. Show that $f^{-1}(U\cup V)=f^{-1}(U)\cup f^{-1}(V)$.



$\subseteq$: Let $x\in f^{-1}(U\cup V)$. $f(x)\in U\cup V$, so $f(x)\in U\vee f(x)\in V$. In the first case, $x\in f^{-1}(U)$, and in the second, $x\in f^{-1}(V)$. In either case, $x\in f^{-1}(U)\cup f^{-1}(V)$.

$\supseteq$: Let $x\in f^{-1}(U)\cup f^{-1}(V)$. $x\in f^{-1}(U)\vee x\in f^{-1}(V)$. In the first case, $f(x)\in U$, in the second, $f(x)\in V$. In either case, $f(x)\in U\cup V$, showing $x\in f^{-1}(U\cup V)$.



> Show that $f^{-1}(U-V)=f^{-1}(U)-f^{-1}(V)$.



$\subseteq$: Let $x\in f^{-1}(U-V)$. $f(x)\in U-V$. $f(x)\in U$, $f(x)\notin V$. Since $f(x)\in U$, $x\in f^{-1}(U)$. Since $f(x)\notin V$, $x\notin f^{-1}(V)$. Combining $x\in f^{-1}(U)$ and $x\notin f^{-1}(V)$, we have $x\in f^{-1}(U)-f^{-1}(V)$.

$\supseteq$: Let $x\in f^{-1}(U)-f^{-1}(V)$. $x\in f^{-1}(U)$, $x\notin f^{-1}(V)$. $f(x)\in U$, $f(x)\notin V$. $f(x)\in U-V$, $x\in f^{-1}(U-V)$.



> Show that $f^{-1}(U\cap V)=f^{-1}(U)\cap f^{-1}(V)$.



$f^{-1}(U\cap V)=f^{-1}((U\cup V) - (U-V) - (V-U))=f^{-1}(U\cup V)-f^{-1}(U-V)-f^{-1}(V-U)$

$=(f^{-1}(U)\cup f^{-1}(V))-(f^{-1}(U)- f^{-1}(V))-(f^{-1}(V)- f^{-1}(U))=f^{-1}(U)\cap f^{-1}(V)$



In other words, we express $\cap$ as a combination of $\cup$ and $-$. Since $f^{-1}$ distributes over both, it distributes over $\cap$ as well.

###### Exercise 3.4.5

> Let $f:X\to Y$. Show that $f(f^{-1}(S))=S$ for every $S\subseteq Y$ iff $f$ is surjective.



$\implies$: Let $y\in Y$. $f(f^{-1}(\{y\}))=\{y\}$. Since $f(\varnothing)=\varnothing\neq\{y\}$, it must be that $f^{-1}(\{y\})$ contains an object. Let $x\in f^{-1}(\{y\})$. $f(x)=y$, showing that $f$ is surjective.

$\impliedby$: We already know $f(f^{-1}(S))\subseteq S$ from Exercise 3.4.2, it suffices to show that $S\subseteq f(f^{-1}(S))$. Let $y\in S$. Since $f$ is surjective, there exists $x\in X$ s.t. $f(x)=y$. $x\in f^{-1}(S)$, so $f(x)\in f(f^{-1}(S))$. Substituting, we have $y\in f(f^{-1}(S))$, completing the proof.



> Show that $f^{-1}(f(S))=S$ for every $S\subseteq X$ iff $f$ is injective.



$\implies$: Let $a,b\in X$ s.t. $a\neq b$. Assume for the sake of contradiction that $f(a)=f(b)$. Label $y=f(a)=f(b)$. $f^{-1}(f(\{a\}))=f^{-1}(\{y\})=\{a,b\}$. This contradicts our assumption that $f^{-1}(f(\{a\}))=\{a\}$, as $\{a,b\}\neq\{a\}$ since $a\neq b$. This shows that $f(a)\neq f(b)$, meaning that $f$ is injective.

$\impliedby$: We already know $S\subseteq f^{-1}(f(S))$ from Exercise 3.4.2, it remains to prove that $f^{-1}(f(S))\subseteq S$. Let $x\in f^{-1}(f(S))$. This means $f(x)\in f(S)$. Let $y=f(x)$, so $y\in f(S)$. There exists $x'\in S$ s.t. $f(x')=y$. $f(x')=f(x)$, so $x'=x$ because $f$ is injective. $x'\in S$, so $x\in S$, completing the proof.

###### Exercise 3.4.6

> Prove Lemma 3.4.9.



Let $F=\{0,1\}^X$, meaning that $F$ is the set of all functions $X\to\{0,1\}$. Applying the axiom of replacement, we construct $T=\{f^{-1}(\{1\}):f\in F\}$. We claim that $T=\{Y:Y\subseteq X\}$.



$\subseteq$: Let $S\in T$. $S=f^{-1}(\{1\})$ for some $f\in F$. Since the inverse image is a subset of the domain, $f^{-1}(\{1\})\subseteq X$. This means $S\subseteq X$, so $S$ satisfies the condition for inclusion in $\{Y:Y\subseteq X\}$.

$\supseteq$: Let $S\in\{Y:Y\subseteq X\}$. This means $S\subseteq X$. Define $f:X\to\{0,1\}$ given by $f(x)=1$ iff $x\in S$, and $f(x)=0$ iff $x\notin S$. $f\in F$. Obviously, $S=f^{-1}(\{1\})$. This shows that $S\in T$, completing the proof.

###### Exercise 3.4.7

> Let $X,Y$ be sets. Define a **partial function** from $X$ to $Y$ to be any function $f:X'\to Y'$ s.t. $X'\subseteq X$ and $Y'\subseteq Y$. Show that the collection of all partial functions from $X$ to $Y$ is a set.



$\bigcup\bigcup \{\{Y'^{X'}:Y'\in  2^Y\}:X'\in 2^X\}$ is a construction of the desired set using Lemma 3.4.9, the axiom of replacement, and the union axiom.

###### Exercise 3.4.8

> Show that Axiom 3.4 can be deduced from Axiom 3.1, Axiom 3.3, and Axiom 3.11.



Let $A,B$ be sets. Since they are objects by Axiom 3.1, we apply Axiom 3.3 to obtain the sets $\{A\},\{B\}$. Since these are sets, again by Axiom 3.1 they are objects, so we can speak of the set $\{\{A\},\{B\}\}$. Applying Axiom 3.11, we obtain the set $\bigcup\{\{A\},\{B\}\}$. This is the set of all objects that are in either $A$ or $B$, which is $A\cup B$ as defined by Axiom 3.4.

###### Exercise 3.4.9

> Show that if $\beta$ and $\beta'$ are two elements of a set $I$, and to each $\alpha\in I$ we assign a set $\alpha$, then $\{x\in A_\beta:x\in A_\alpha\ \forall\alpha\in I\}=\{x\in A_{\beta'}:x\in A_\alpha\ \forall\alpha\in I\}$, meaning the definition of $\bigcap$ in (3.3) does not depend on the choice of $\beta$.



$\subseteq$: Let $x$ be an element of the first set. We have $x\in A_\alpha$ for all $\alpha\in I$ from the condition of the first set, which is precisely the condition for inclusion into the second set. Since $\beta'\in I$, we have $x\in A_{\beta'}$. Since $x$ is in the target set and satisfies the condition, it is an element of the second set.

$\supseteq$: Symmetric, follows without loss of generality.

###### Exercise 3.4.10

> Let $X$ be a set, let $I$ be a nonempty set, and for all $\alpha\in I$ let $A_\alpha\subseteq X$. Show that $X-\bigcup_{\alpha\in I}A_\alpha=\bigcap_{\alpha\in I}(X-A_\alpha)$.



$\subseteq$: Let $x\in X-\bigcup_{\alpha\in I}A_\alpha$. $x\in X$, and $x\notin \bigcup_{\alpha\in I}A_\alpha$, meaning $x\notin A_\alpha$ for any $\alpha$. We have $x\in X-A_\alpha$ for any $\alpha\in I$, meaning $x\in\bigcap_{\alpha\in I}(X-A_\alpha)$.

$\supseteq$: Let $x\in\bigcap_{\alpha\in I}(X-A_\alpha)$. We have $x\in X-A_\alpha$ for all $\alpha\in I$, so we have $x\in X$ and $x\notin A_\alpha$ for any $\alpha\in I$. This leads to $x\notin\bigcup_{\alpha\in I}A_\alpha$. Combining, we get $x\in X-\bigcup_{\alpha\in I}A_\alpha$, completing the proof.



> Show that $X-\bigcap_{\alpha\in I}A_\alpha=\bigcup_{\alpha\in I}(X-A_\alpha)$.



$\subseteq$: Let $x\in X-\bigcap_{\alpha\in I}A_\alpha$. We have $x\in X$ and $x\notin \bigcap_{\alpha\in I}A_\alpha$, meaning $x\notin A_\alpha$ for some $\alpha\in I$. For this $\alpha$, we have $x\in X-A_\alpha$, so $x\in \bigcup_{\alpha\in I}(X-A_\alpha)$.

$\supseteq$: Let $x\in \bigcup_{\alpha\in I}(X-A_\alpha)$. We have $x\in X-A_\alpha$ for some $\alpha\in I$. For this $\alpha$, we have $x\notin A_\alpha$ and $x\in X$, so we have $x\notin\bigcap_{\alpha\in I}A_\alpha$, leading to $x\in X-\bigcap_{\alpha\in I} A_\alpha$, completing the proof.
