# Content
**Definition 3.5.1** (Ordered pair)
If $x$ and $y$ are objects that are not necessarily distinct, we define the **ordered pair** $(x,y)$ to be a new object. Two ordered pairs $(x,y)$ and $(x',y')$ are considered equal iff $x=x'$ and $y=y'$. In contrast to sets, $(3,5)\neq(5,3)$ whereas $\{3,5\}=\{5,3\}$.

**Definition 3.5.4** (Cartesian product)
For sets $X$ and $Y$, we define the **Cartesian product** $X\times Y:=\{(x,y):x\in X,y\in Y\}$.

**Definition 3.5.7** (Ordered $n$-tuple and $n$-fold Cartesian product)
Let $n$ be a natural. An **ordered $n$-tuple** $(x_i)_{1\leq i\leq n}$ (or $(x_1,\ldots,x_n)$) is a collection of objects $x_i$ for each natural $1\leq i\leq n$. We refer to $x_i$ as the $i$-th **component** of the ordered $n$-tuple. Two ordered $n$-tuples $(x_1,\ldots,x_n)$ and $(y_1,\ldots,y_n)$ are equal iff $x_i=y_i$ for all $1\leq i\leq n$. If $(X_1,\ldots,X_n)$ is an ordered $n$-tuple of sets, we define their **Cartesian product** $\prod_{1\leq i\leq n}X_i=\{(x_i)_{1\leq i\leq n}:x_i\in X\ \forall 1\leq i\leq n\}$ (also denoted by $X_1\times\ldots\times X_N$).

**Lemma 3.5.12** (Finite choice)
Let $n\geq 1$ be a natural, and for each $1\leq i\leq n$ let $X_i$ be a nonempty set. $\prod_{1\leq i\leq n}X_i$ is nonempty.
# Exercises
###### Exercise 3.5.1
> Let $x$ and $y$ be objects. Suppose we define the ordered pair $(x,y):=\{\{x\},\{x,y\}\}$. Show that this definition obeys the same definition of equality as Definition 3.5.1. 

Let $x,x',y,y'$ be objects. We claim that $(x,y)=(x',y')\iff x=x'\wedge y=y'$.
$\impliedby$: Trivially follows from that sets obey the axiom of substitution.
$\implies$: We have that $(x,y)$ and $(x',y')$ are subsets of each other. This means that $\{\{x\},\{x,y\}\}\subseteq\{\{x'\},\{x',y'\}\}$. $\{x\}\in \{\{x'\},\{x',y'\}\}$, so we have at least one of $\{x\}=\{x'\}\vee\{x\}=\{x',y'\}$. $\{x'\}\subseteq\{x\}\vee\{x',y'\}\subseteq\{x\}$. In either case we have $x=x'$. 
Consider the case of $x=y$. We have $x=y=x'$. $(x,y)=\{\{x\}\}$, so $\{\{x'\},\{x',y'\}\}\subseteq\{\{x\}\}$, $\{x',y'\}\in \{\{x\}\}$, $\{x',y'\}=\{x\}$, $\{x',y'\}\subseteq\{x\}$, $y'\in\{x\}$, $y'=x$, $y'=y$.
For the remaining case of $x\neq y$, $\{x,y\}\in\{\{x'\},\{x',y'\}\}$. $\{x,y\}=\{x'\}\vee\{x,y\}=\{x',y'\}$. The first case cannot hold as $x=x'$ so if $x\neq y$ then $x'\neq y$ so $\{x,y\}\not\subseteq\{x'\}$. The second must hold, and $\{x,y\}\subseteq\{x',y'\}$ so $y\in\{x',y'\}$ so $y=x'\vee y=y'$. The first case cannot hold so the second must be true.
We have shown $x=x'$, and we have shown that $y=y'$ for both cases $x=y$ and $x\neq y$.

> Using the new ordered pair definition, show that for sets $X$ and $Y$, the Cartesian product $X\times Y$ is a set.

$\bigcup\{\{\{\{x\},\{x,y\}\}:x\in X\}:y\in Y\}$ gives the desired set using multiple applications of the axiom of union, axiom of replacement, and the axiom of singleton sets and pair sets.

> Show that the definition $(x,y):=\{x,\{x,y\}\}$ also obeys the same definition of equality.

Let $x,x',y,y'$ be objects. We claim that $(x,y)=(x',y')\iff x=x'\wedge y=y'$.
$\impliedby$: Trivially follows from that sets obey the axiom of substitution.
$\implies$: We start with $\{x,\{x,y\}\}=\{x',\{x',y'\}\}$, so we have $\{x,\{x,y\}\}\subseteq\{x',\{x',y'\}\}$ and $\{x,\{x,y\}\}\supseteq\{x',\{x',y'\}\}$. We have $x\in\{x',\{x',y'\}\}$ and $x'\in\{x,\{x,y\}\}$, so we have $x=x'\vee x=\{x',y'\}$ and $x'=x\vee x'=\{x,y\}$. If it were that $x\neq x'$, then it must be that $x=\{x',y'\}$ and $x'=\{x,y\}$, so $x\in x'$ and $x'\in x$, which is a contradiction as we will prove shortly. We have $x=x'$.
We have $\{x,y\}\in\{x',\{x',y'\}\}$, so $\{x,y\}=x'$ or $\{x,y\}=\{x',y'\}$. If it were that $\{x,y\}=x'$, then by substitution we have $\{x,y\}=x$ so $x\in x$, which is also a contradiction as we will prove shortly. It must be that $\{x,y\}\neq x'$, so it must be that $\{x,y\}=\{x',y'\}$.
$y\in\{x',y'\}$ so $y=x'$ or $y=y'$. If $y=y'$, we are done. Otherwise, it must be that $y=x'$, giving $x=y$. We also must have $y'\in\{x,y\}$, so $y'=x$ or $y'=y$. But $x=y$, so $y'=y$ in both cases.
We have proved both $x=x'$ and $y=y'$, so we have completed the proof.

$a\in b\wedge b\in a$ is false: Assume for the sake of contradiction that $a\in b\wedge b\in a$. Since $a\in b$, $b$ must be a set. Likewise, $b\in a$ so $a$ must also be a set. Consider $S=\{a,b\}$. By the axiom of regularity, it must be that $S$ has an element that is either not a set, or an element that is disjoint from $S$. Since $a,b$ are both sets, it must be that either $a$ or $b$ is disjoint from $S$. $a\in b$ and $a\in S$ so $b$ is not disjoint from $S$, and likewise $b\in a$ and $b\in S$ so $a$ is not disjoint from $S$. This is a violation of the axiom of regularity, so $a\in b\wedge b\in a$ must not hold.

$a\in a$ is false: Assume for the sake of contradiction that $a\in a$. Since $a\in a$, $a$ must be a set. Because it is a set, it contradicts Exercise 3.2.2, meaning that $a\in a$ must not hold.
###### Exercise 3.5.2
> Suppose we define an ordered $n$-tuple to be a surjective function $x:\{i\in\N:1\leq i\leq n\}\to X$ whose range is some arbitrary set $X$. We write $x_i$ for $x(i)$ and $(x_i)_{1\leq i\leq n}$ for $x$. Verify that the same equality of Definition 3.5.7 holds.

Let $x,y$ be ordered $n$-tuples. $x,y$ are functions from $\{i\in\N:1\leq i\leq n\}$ to $X$, and for them to be equal they need to give the same output for every input in the domain. This is equivalent to $x(i)=y(i)$ for all $1\leq i\leq n$. $x(i)$ is $x_i$ and $y(i)$ is $y_i$, so the statement is in turn equivalent to $x_i=y_i$ for all $1\leq i\leq n$, which is precisely the definition of equality in 3.5.7.

> Show that if $(X_i)_{1\leq i\leq n}$ is an ordered $n$-tuple of sets, then the Cartesian product as defined in Definition 3.5.7 is also a set.

Let $I=\{i\in\N:1\leq i\leq n\}$ and $X=\bigcup_{i\in I}X_i$. We construct the set $X^I$ using the axiom of power sets. Applying the axiom of specification, we obtain $\{x\in X^I:x(i)\in X_i\ \forall i\in I\}$, which gives us precisely the Cartesian product defined in 3.5.7.
###### Exercise 3.5.3
> Show that the definitions of equality for ordered pair and ordered $n$-tuple obey the reflexivity, symmetry and transitivity axioms.

We omit the proof for ordered pairs as they are ordered $2$-tuples and are therefore covered by the proof for ordered $n$-tuples.

Let $(x_i)_{1\leq i\leq n},(y_i)_{1\leq i\leq n},(z_i)_{1\leq i\leq n}$ be ordered $n$-tuples (which we will be referring to as $x,y,z$) such that $x=y$ and $y=z$.
Reflexivity: Since equality of objects is reflexive, $x_i=x_i$ for all $1\leq i\leq n$, therefore $x = x$.
Symmetry: $x=y$, so $x_i=y_i$ for all $1\leq i\leq n$. Equality of objects is symmetric, so $y_i=x_i$ for all $1\leq i\leq n$, so $y=x$.
Transitivity: $x=y$ and $y=z$ mean $x_i=y_i$ and $y_i=z_i$ for all $1\leq i\leq n$. Equality of objects is transitive, so $x_i=z_i$ for all $1\leq i\leq n$, meaning $x=z$.
###### Exercise 3.5.4
> Let $A,B,C$ be sets. Show that $A\times(B\cup C)=(A\times B)\cup(A\times C)$.

TODO

> Show that $A\times(B\cap C)=(A\times B)\cap(A\times C)$.

TODO

> Show that $A\times(B-C)=(A\times B)-(A\times C)$.

TODO
###### Exercise 3.5.5
> Let $A,B,C,D$ be sets. Show that $(A\times B)\cap (C\times D)=(A\cap C)\times(B\cap D)$. 

TODO
###### Exercise 3.5.6
> Let $A,B,C,D$ be non-empty sets. Show that $A\times B\subseteq C\times D$ iff $A\subseteq C$ and $B\subseteq D$.

TODO

> Show that $A\times B=C\times D$ iff $A=C$ and $B=D$.

TODO

> What happens if the hypotheses that the $A,B,C,D$ are nonempty are removed?

TODO
###### Exercise 3.5.7
> Let $X,Y$ be sets, and let $\pi_{X\times Y\to X}:X\times Y\to X$ and $\pi_{X\times Y\to Y}:X\times Y\to Y$ be the maps $\pi_{X\times Y\to X}(x,y):= x$ and $\pi_{X\times Y\to Y}(x,y):= y$. These maps are known as the **co-ordinate functions** on $X\times Y$. Show that for any functions $f:Z\to X$ and $g:Z\to Y$, there exists a unique function $h:Z\to X\times Y$ s.t. $\pi_{X\times Y\to X}\circ h=f$ and $\pi_{X\times Y\to Y}\circ h=g$. This function $h$ is known as the **direct sum** of $f$ and $g$ and is denoted $h=f\oplus g$.

Existance: Consider $h:Z\to X\times Y$ given by $h(z)=(f(z),g(z))$ for all $z$. We see that $(\pi_{X\times Y\to X}\circ h)(z)=\pi_{X\times Y\to X}(h(z))=\pi_{X\times Y\to X}(f(z),g(z))=f(z)$ for all $z\in Z$, so $\pi_{X\times Y\to X}\circ h=f$. Likewise, $(\pi_{X\times Y\to Y}\circ h)(z)=\pi_{X\times Y\to Y}(h(z))=\pi_{X\times Y\to Y}(f(z),g(z))=g(z)$ for all $z\in Z$, so $\pi_{X\times Y\to Y}\circ h=g$.
Uniqueness: Let $h:Z\to X\times Y$ s.t. $\pi_{X\times Y\to X}\circ h=f$, $\pi_{X\times Y\to Y}\circ h=g$. We will show that $h$ is uniquely determined by our hypotheses. To do this, we will show that each $h(z)$ is uniquely determined for all $z\in Z$. $h(z)=(x,y)$ for some $x\in X$ and $y\in Y$. $\pi_{X\times Y\to X}\circ h=f$, so $(\pi_{X\times Y\to X}\circ h)(z)=f(z)=\pi_{X\times Y\to X}(h(z))=\pi_{X\times Y\to X}(x,y)=x$, showing that $x=f(z)$, meaning $x$ is uniquely determined. Likewise, $\pi_{X\times Y\to Y}\circ h=g$ so $(\pi_{X\times Y\to Y}\circ h)(z)=g(z)=\pi_{X\times Y\to Y}(h(z))=\pi_{X\times Y\to Y}(x,y)=y$, showing $y=g(z)$ and that $y$ is also uniquely determined. Since $x,y$ are uniquely determined, so is $(x,y)=h(z)$, completing the proof.

> Compare this to the last part of Exercise 3.3.8, and to Exercise 3.1.7.

In Exercise 3.3.8(d), we constructed a unique $h:X\cup Y\to Z$ from a $f:X\to Z$ and a $g:Y\to Z$. Here, we construct a $h:Z\to X\times Y$ from a $f:Z\to X$ and a $g:Z\to Y$. In that exercise we make a function where the *domain* is the *disjoint union* of the domains of the two initial functions, here we make a function where the _range_ is the _product_ of the ranges of the two initial functions.

In Exercise 3.1.7, we show that $A\cap B\subseteq A$, $A\cap B\subseteq B$, and $C\subseteq A\wedge C\subseteq B\iff C\subseteq A\cap B$. Secondly, we show that $A\subseteq A\cup B$, $B\subseteq A\cup B$, and $A\subseteq C\wedge B\subseteq C\iff A\cup B\subseteq C$.

TODO
###### Exercise 3.5.8
> Let $X_1,\ldots,X_n$ be sets. Show that $\prod_{i=1}^{n}X_i$ is empty iff at least one of the $X_i$ is empty.

$\implies$: Is the contrapositive of Lemma 3.5.12.
$\impliedby$: Let $k$ be the index at which $X_k$ is empty. For any element of $\prod_{i=1}^n X_i$, it must be that its $k$-th component is an element of $X_k$. Since $X_k$ is empty, there is no such element, meaning that $\prod_{i=1}^n X_i$ is empty.
###### Exercise 3.5.9
> Let $I,J$ be sets, and let $A_\alpha,B_\beta$ be sets for all $\alpha\in I$ and $\beta\in J$. Show that $(\bigcup_{\alpha\in I}A_\alpha)\cap(\bigcup_{\beta\in J}B_\beta)=\bigcup_{(\alpha,\beta)\in I\times J}(A_\alpha\cap B_\beta)$.

$$\begin{align}
x\in(\bigcup_{\alpha\in I}A_\alpha)\cap(\bigcup_{\beta\in J}B_\beta)&\iff (x\in \bigcup_{\alpha\in I}A_\alpha)\wedge (x\in \bigcup_{\beta\in J}B_\beta)
\\&\iff (\exists\alpha\in I.x\in A_\alpha)\wedge(\exists\beta\in J.x\in B_\beta)
\\&\iff\exists(\alpha,\beta)\in I\times J.(x\in A_\alpha\wedge x\in B_\beta)
\\&\iff\exists(\alpha,\beta)\in I\times J.(x\in A_\alpha\cap B_\beta)
\\&\iff x\in\bigcup_{(\alpha,\beta)\in I\times J} (A_\alpha\cap B_\beta)
\end{align}$$
This shows that $(\bigcup_{\alpha\in I}A_\alpha)\cap(\bigcup_{\beta\in J}B_\beta)=\bigcup_{(\alpha,\beta)\in I\times J}(A_\alpha\cap B_\beta)$.
###### Exercise 3.5.10
> If $f:X\to Y$ is a function, define the **graph** of $f$ to be the subset of $X\times Y$ defined by $\{(x,f(x)):x\in X\}$. Show that two functions $f,\tilde f:X\to Y$ are equal iff they have the same graph.

$\implies$: Let $x\in X$. We have that $f=\tilde f$, so $f(x)=\tilde f(x)$. $(x,f(x))=(x,\tilde f(x))$. Therefore, $\{(x,f(x)):x\in X\}=\{(x,\tilde f(x)):x\in X\}$.
$\impliedby$: For the sake of contradiction assume that $f\neq\tilde f$. There exists $x\in X$ s.t. $f(x)\neq\tilde f(x)$. Let $(x',\tilde f(x'))$ in the graph of $\tilde f$. We will show that $(x,f(x))\neq (x',\tilde f(x'))$. In the case that $x\neq x'$, then the first components are different, so the pairs are different. Otherwise if $x=x'$, then $\tilde f(x')=\tilde f(x)$, which we know is $\neq f(x)$, so the pairs are different because the second components $f(x)\neq \tilde f(x')$ are different. This shows that $(x,f(x))$ is not equal to any element of the graph of $\tilde f$, so it is not included in it, showing that the graphs are different, which is a contradiction. It must hold that $f=\tilde f$.

> Conversely, if $G$ is any subset of $X\times Y$ with the property that for each $x\in X$, the set $\{y\in Y:(x,y)\in G\}$ has exactly one element (obeys the vertical line test), show that there is exactly one function $f:X\to Y$ whose graph is equal to $G$.

$\{y\in Y:(x,y)\in G\}$ having only one element for any $x\in X$ means that there exists precisely one $y\in Y$ s.t. $(x,y)\in G$. For any $x\in X$, we define $f(x)$ to be exactly that unique $y$. We have uniquely defined $f(x)$ for all $x\in X$, so we have uniquely defined $f:X\to Y$. Now we will show that $G$ is the graph of $f$.
Let $(x,y)\in G$. By definition, $y=f(x)$. $(x,y)=(x,f(x))$, which is in the graph of $f$. Conversely, let $(x,f(x))$ in the graph of $f$. By definition, $f(x)$ is the $y\in Y$ s.t. $(x,y)\in G$, so $(x,f(x))=(x,y)\in G$. This completes the proof.
###### Exercise 3.5.11
> Show that Axiom 3.10 can in fact be deduced from Lemma 3.4.9 and the other axioms of set theory, and thus Lemma 3.4.9 can be used as an alternate formulation of the power set axiom.

Let $X,Y$ be sets. Applying Lemma 3.4.9, we construct the set of all subsets of $X\times Y$. Applying the axiom of specification, we construct the set of all subsets of $X\times Y$ that obey the vertical line test. Applying the axiom of replacement and the result of Exercise 3.5.10, we construct the set that contains the corresponding function for all subsets of $X\times Y$ that obey the vertical line test.
To show that this set is equal to $Y^X$, it remains to show that every function $f:X\to Y$ is included in this set. Consider the graph of $f$. Let $x\in X$. Since there is only one $y\in Y$ s.t. $y=f(x)$, we have only one $y$ for which $(x,y)$ is an element of the graph of $f$. This means that the graph of $f$ satisfies the vertical line test, and since it is a subset of $X\times Y$, its corresponding function must be in our initial construction, meaning that $f$ is in the set. This completes the construction of a set equivalent to $Y^X$.
###### Exercise 3.5.12
> We will establish a rigorous version of Proposition 2.1.16. Let $f:\N\times\N\to\N$ be a function, and let $c$ be a natural. Show that there exists a function $a:\N\to\N$ s.t. $a(0)=c$ and $a(n^+)=f(n,a(n))$ and that this function is unique. Do not use any property that is not directly of the Peano axioms.

Omitted.
###### Exercise 3.5.13
Omitted.