# Content
**Definition 3.6.1** (Equal cardinality)
Let $X,Y$ be sets. $X$ and $Y$ have equal cardinality iff there exists a bijection $f:X\to Y$.

**Proposition 3.6.4**
For sets $X,Y$, if we say that $X\sim Y$ iff $X$ and $Y$ have equal cardinality, then $\sim$ is an equivalence relation on sets.

**Definition 3.6.5**
Let $n$ be a natural number. A set $X$ has cardinality $n$ iff it has equal cardinality with $\{i\in\N:1\leq i\leq n\}$. We also say that $X$ has $n$ elements iff it has cardinality $n$.

**Proposition 3.6.8** (Uniqueness of cardinality)
Let $X$ be a set with some cardinality $n$. $X$ cannot have cardinality $m$ for any $m\neq n$.

**Lemma 3.6.9**
Let $n\geq 1$ and $X$ be a set with cardinality $n$. Then $X$ is nonempty, and for any $x\in X$, $X-\{x\}$ has cardinality $n-1$.

**Definition 3.6.10** (Finite sets)
A set is finite iff it has cardinality $n$ for some natural $n$. Otherwise, the set is infinite. If $X$ is finite, we denote its cardinality by $\#(X)$.

**Theorem 3.6.12**
$\N$ is infinite.

**Proposition 3.6.14** (Cardinal arithmetic)
(a) Let $X$ be a finite set, and let $x\notin X$. $X\cup\{x\}$ is finite and $\#(X\cup\{x\})=\#(X)+1$.
(b) Let $X,Y$ be finite sets. Then $X\cup Y$ is finite and $\#(X\cup Y)\leq \#(X)+\#(Y)$. If $X,Y$ are disjoint, then $\#(X\cup Y)=\#(X)+\#(Y)$.
(c) Let $X$ be a finite set and $Y\subseteq X$. Then $Y$ is finite and $\#(Y)\leq \#(X)$. If $Y\neq X$, then $\#(Y)<\#(X)$.
(d) if $X$ is a finite set and $f:X\to Y$ is a function then $f(X)$ is a finite set with $\#(f(X))\leq\#(X)$. If $f$ is injective then $\#(f(X))=\#(X)$.
(e) Let $X,Y$ be finite sets. Then $X\times Y$ is finite and $\#(X\times Y)=\#(X)\times\#(Y)$.
(f) Let $X,Y$ be finite sets. Then $Y^X$ is finite and $\#(Y^X)=\#(Y)^{\#(X)}$.
# Exercises
###### Exercise 3.6.1
> Prove Proposition 3.6.4.

Let $X,Y,Z$ be sets.
Reflexivity: The identity function $\iota_{X\to X}:X\to X$ is a bijection from $X$ to itself, so $X$ has equal cardinality with itself.
Symmetry: $X$ and $Y$ have equal cardinality, so there must be a bijection $f:X\to Y$. Since $f$ is a bijection, it must have an inverse $f^{-1}:Y\to X$. Since $f^{-1}$ is also bijective, $Y$ has equal cardinality with $X$.
Transitivity: $X,Y$ have equal cardinality and $Y,Z$ have equal cardinality. Let $f:X\to Y$ and $g:Y\to Z$ be bijections. Since the composition of bijections is a bijection, $(g\circ f):X\to Z$ is also a bijection, showing that $X$ has equal cardinality with $Z$.
###### Exercise 3.6.2
> Show that a set $X$ has cardinality $0$ iff $X=\varnothing$.

$\implies$: There exists a bijection $f$ from $X$ to $\{i\in\N:1\leq i\leq 0\}$, which is $\varnothing$. If $X$ were nonzero it would have some $x\in X$, but $f(x)\in\varnothing$ is a contradiction so it must be that $X=\varnothing$.
$\impliedby$: The empty function is a bijection from $X=\varnothing$ to $\varnothing$ which is $\{i\in\N:1\leq i\leq 0\}$. This means that $X$ has cardinality $0$.
###### Exercise 3.6.3
> Let $n$ be a natural and let $f:\{i\in\N:1\leq i\leq n\}\to\N$ be a function. Show that there exists natural $M$ s.t. $f(i)\leq M$ for all $1\leq i\leq n$. Thus finite subsets of the naturals are bounded.

We induct on $n$. For the base case $n=0$, it is vacuously true that $f(i)\leq 0$ for all $1\leq i\leq 0$. This makes $0$ a suitable $M$ for $n=0$.
We assume inductively that for any $f:\{i\in\N:1\leq i\leq n\}\to\N$ there exists $M$ s.t. $f(i)\leq M$ for all $1\leq i\leq n$. We will show that for any $f':\{i\in\N:1\leq i\leq n^+\}\to\N$, there exists $M'$ s.t. $f'(i)\leq M'$ for all $1\leq i\leq n^+$. Consider $f:\{i\in\N:1\leq i\leq n\}\to\N$ given by $f(i)=f'(i)$ for all $1\leq i\leq n$. By the inductive hypothesis, there exists $M$ s.t. $f(i)\leq M$ for all $1\leq i\leq n$. Define $M'=\max(M,f'(n^+))$. For any $1\leq i\leq n^+$, it is either $\leq n$ or $=n^+$. If $i\leq n$, then $f'(i)=f(i)\leq M\leq M'$. If $i=n^+$, then $f'(i)=f'(n^+)\leq M'$. In either case, we have $f'(i)\leq M'$, closing the induction.
###### Exercise 3.6.4
> Prove Proposition 3.6.14.
> (a) Let $X$ be a finite set, and let $x\notin X$. $X\cup\{x\}$ is finite and $\#(X\cup\{x\})=\#(X)+1$.

Let $n=\#(X)$ and let $f:\{i\in\N:1\leq i\leq n\}\to X$ be a bijection. Let $f':\{i\in\N:1\leq i\leq n+1\}\to X\cup\{x\}$ be given by $f'(i)=f(i)$ if $i\leq n$ otherwise $f'(i)=x$ for all $1\leq i\leq n+1$.
$f'$ is surjective: Let $a\in X\cup\{x\}$. $a\in X$ or $a=x$. If $a\in X$, then since $f$ is a bijection there exists $1\leq i\leq n$ s.t. $f(i)=a$. Since $i\leq n$, $f(i)=f'(i)=a$.
$f'$ is injective: Let $1\leq i,j\leq n+1$ s.t. $i\neq j$. WLOG assume that $i<j$. If $j\leq n$, then $i\leq n$ as well, and since $f$ is a bijection and $i\neq j$ we have $f(i)\neq f(j)$. Since $i<j\leq n$ $f(i)=f'(i)$ and $f(j)=f'(j)$ so $f'(i)\neq f'(j)$. If $j=n+1$, then $f'(j)=x$ and since $i<j$, $i\leq n$ so $f'(i)=f(i)\in X$. Since $x\notin X$, we have $f'(i)\neq f'(j)$.
This shows that $f'$ is a bijection, and completes the proof that $X\cup\{x\}$ has cardinality $n+1$, i.e. that $\#(X\cup\{x\})=\#(X)+1$.

> (b) Let $X,Y$ be finite sets. Then $X\cup Y$ is finite and $\#(X\cup Y)\leq \#(X)+\#(Y)$. If $X,Y$ are disjoint, then $\#(X\cup Y)=\#(X)+\#(Y)$.

We will first prove the disjoint case. Let $n$ be a natural and $X,Y$ be disjoint finite sets s.t. $\#(X)=n$. We will induct on $n$. For the base case $n=0$, by the result of Exercise 3.6.2, $X=\varnothing$. $X\cup Y=\varnothing\cup Y=Y$, so $X\cup Y$ is finite and $\#(X\cup Y)=\#(Y)=0+\#(Y)=\#(X)+\#(Y)$.
We assume that the statement holds for $n$ and we will prove it for $n^+$. $\#(X)=n^+\neq 0$ so by Lemma 3.6.9 there exists some $x\in X$ and $\#(X-\{x\})=n^+-1=n$. Since $X-\{x\}$ is of cardinality $n$ and is disjoint from $Y$, the IH applies, so $\#((X-\{x\})\cup Y)=\#(X-\{x\})+\#(Y)=n+\#(Y)$. Since $x\in X$ and $X,Y$ are disjoint, $x\notin Y$. $x\notin X-\{x\}$, so $x\notin(X-\{x\})\cup Y$ as well. By Proposition 3.6.14(a), $\#((X-\{x\})\cup Y\cup \{x\})=\#((X-\{x\})\cup Y)+1=n+\#(Y)+1$. It is clear to see that $(X-\{x\})\cup Y\cup\{x\}=X\cup Y$, so $\#(X\cup Y)=n+\#(Y)+1=n^++\#(Y)=\#(X)+\#(Y)$, closing the induction.

Since we have not used this proposition in the proof of 3.6.14(c), we may use 3.6.14(c) in this proof.
Let $X,Y$ be finite sets not necessarily disjoint. Clearly $X\cup Y=X\cup(Y-X)$, and $X,Y-X$ are disjoint, and $Y-X\subseteq Y$. Applying the disjoint case we have $\#(X\cup Y)=\#(X\cup(Y-X))=\#(X)+\#(Y-X)$. By Proposition 3.6.14(c), $\#(Y-X)\leq\#(Y)$, so $\#(X\cup Y)\leq\#(X)+\#(Y)$, completing the proof.

> (c) Let $X$ be a finite set and $Y\subseteq X$. Then $Y$ is finite and $\#(Y)\leq \#(X)$. If $Y\neq X$, then $\#(Y)<\#(X)$.

We use induction to prove that for any natural $n$ and $X$ s.t. $\#(X)=n$, if $Y\subseteq X$ then $Y$ is finite and $\#(Y)\leq\#(X)$.
For the base case $n=0$, by the result of Exercise 3.6.2 $X=\varnothing$. If $Y\subseteq X$ then $Y=\varnothing$ as well, so $Y$ is finite and $\#(Y)=0\leq 0=\#(X)$.
We will assume the statement for $n$ and prove it for $n^+$. Let $X$ be some set of cardinality $n^+$. Since $X$ has nonzero cardinality, by Lemma 3.6.9 $X$ is nonempty, and there exists $x\in X$ s.t. $\#(X-\{x\})=n^+-1=n$. Let $Y\subseteq X$. Obviously, $Y-\{x\}\subseteq X-\{x\}$. Since $X-\{x\}$ has cardinality $n$ the IH applies, and we have that $Y-\{x\}$ is finite and $\#(Y-\{x\})\leq\#(X-\{x\})<\#(X)$.
If $x\notin Y$, then $Y-\{x\}=Y$ and the induction closes.
If $x\in Y$, then since $x\notin Y-\{x\}$, by Proposition 3.6.14(a) $(Y-\{x\})\cup\{x\}=Y$ is finite and $\#((Y-\{x\})\cup\{x\})=\#(Y)=\#(Y-\{x\})+1$. Since $\#(Y-\{x\})<\#(X)$, $\#(Y-\{x\})+1\leq\#(X)$. Substituting, we have $\#(Y)\leq\#(X)$, closing the induction.

Let $X$ be any finite set. By definition, it has cardinality $n$ for some natural $n$. Then, our inductive result applies, so for any $Y\subseteq X$, $Y$ is finite and $\#(Y)\leq\#(X)$.
If $Y\subsetneq X$, then there must be some $x\in X$ s.t. $x\notin Y$. Then, $Y\subseteq X-\{x\}$. By Lemma 3.6.9, $\#(X-\{x\})=\#(X)-1$ so $\#(X-\{x\})<\#(X)$, and by our result $\#(Y)\leq\#(X-\{x\})<\#(X)$, showing that $\#(Y)<\#(X)$, completing the proof.

> (d) if $X$ is a finite set and $f:X\to Y$ is a function then $f(X)$ is a finite set with $\#(f(X))\leq\#(X)$. If $f$ is injective then $\#(f(X))=\#(X)$.

We claim that for any natural $n$, for any set $X$ s.t. $\#(X)=n$ and $f:X\to Y$ then $f(X)$ is finite and $\#(f(X))\leq \#(X)$. We proceed by inducting on $n$. For the base case $n=0$, $X=\varnothing$, so $f(X)=\varnothing$ as well. This means $f(X)$ is finite, and $\#(f(X))=0\leq0=\#(X)$.
We assume inductively that the statement is true for some $n$, and we will prove it for $n^+$. Let $X$ be some set of cardinality $n^+$ and $f:X\to Y$ be some function. Since $\#(X)=n^+\neq 0$, $X\neq\varnothing$ so there exists some $x\in X$. Consider $f':X-\{x\}\to Y$ given by $f'(x')=f(x')$ for all $x'\in X-\{x\}$. By Lemma 3.6.9, $\#(X-\{x\})=\#(X)-1=n^+-1=n$, so the IH applies and $\#(f'(X-\{x\}))\leq \#(X-\{x\})=n$. $f(X)=f((X-\{x\})\cup\{x\})=f(X-\{x\})\cup f(\{x\})=f'(X-\{x\})\cup\{f(x)\}$. If $f(x)\in f'(X-\{x\})$ then $f(X)=f'(X-\{x\})$ so $\#(f(X))=\#(f'(X-\{x\}))$. If not, by Proposition 3.6.14(a), $\#(f(X))=\#(f'(X-\{x\}))+1$. Either way, $\#(f(X))\leq\#(f'(X-\{x\}))+1$. Substituting, we have $\#(f(X))\leq n+1=n^+=\#(X)$, completing the proof.

> (e) Let $X,Y$ be finite sets. Then $X\times Y$ is finite and $\#(X\times Y)=\#(X)\times\#(Y)$.

We will prove that for any $n$, for any finite sets $X,Y$ s.t. $\#(X)=n$, $X\times Y$ is finite and $\#(X\times Y)=\#(X)\times \#(Y)$. We induct on $n$. Starting with the base case $n=0$, $X=\varnothing$ so $X\times Y$ is also $\varnothing$. $\#(X)\times\#(Y)=0\times\#(Y)=0=\#(X\times Y)$, showing the base case.
We assume the statement inductively for some $n$ and prove it for $n^+$. Let $X,Y$ be finite sets s.t. $\#(X)=n^+$. Since $n^+\neq 0$, $X\neq\varnothing$ so there exists some $x\in X$. By Lemma 3.6.9, $\#(X-\{x\})=n$, so the IH applies and we have $\#((X-\{x\})\times Y)=\#(X-\{x\})\times\#(Y)$. From the bijection $f:Y\to \{x\}\times Y$ given by $f(y)=(x,y)$, we see that $\#(\{x\}\times Y)=\#(Y)$. Adding this equation, we have $\#((X-\{x\})\times Y)+\#(\{x\}\times Y)=\#(X-\{x\})\times\#(Y)+\#(Y)$. It is clear that $(X-\{x\})\times Y$ and $\{x\}\times Y$ are disjoint, so by Proposition 3.6.14(b) we have $\#(((X-\{x\})\times Y)\cup(\{x\}\times Y))=\#(X-\{x\})\times\#(Y)+\#(Y)$. Applying the result of Exercise 3.5.4 we simplify to $\#(X\times Y)=\#(X-\{x\})\times \#(Y)+\#(Y)$. Substituting, we have $\#(X\times Y)=n\times\#(Y)+\#(Y)=n^+\times\#(Y)=\#(X)\times\#(Y)$. This closes the induction.

> (f) Let $X,Y$ be finite sets. Then $Y^X$ is finite and $\#(Y^X)=\#(Y)^{\#(X)}$.

We will prove the statement for any $n$, for any finite sets $X,Y$ s.t. $\#(X)=n$. We proceed by induction on $n$, starting with the base case $n=0$. $X=\varnothing$, and $Y^X$ contains only the empty function from $\varnothing$ to $Y$. Thus $\#(Y^X)=1=\#(Y)^0=\#(Y)^{\#(X)}$, since by Definition 2.3.11 we have $a^0=1$ for all natural $a$.
We assume inductively that the statement has been proved for some $n$ and we prove it for $n^+$. Let $X$ be a set s.t. $\#(X)=n^+$. $X\neq\varnothing$ so there exists $x\in X$. By Lemma 3.6.9 $\#(X-\{x\})=n$, so by the IH $\#(Y^{X-\{x\}})=\#(Y)^{\#(X-\{x\})}=\#(Y)^n$. An obvious bijection gives $\#(Y^{\{x\}})=\#(Y)$, multiplying this to the previous equality we have $\#(Y^{X-\{x\}})\#(Y^{\{x\}})=\#(Y)^n\#(Y)$. Applying Proposition 3.6.14(e) and the properties of exponentiation, we have $\#(Y^{X-\{x\}}\times Y^{\{x\}})=\#(Y)^{n^+}$. Since $X-\{x\}$ and $\{x\}$ are disjoint, the construction of Exercise 3.3.8(d) gives us a bijection between $Y^{X-\{x\}}\times Y^{\{x\}}$ and $Y^X$ (proof omitted). Substituting, $\#(Y^X)=\#(Y)^{n^+}=\#(Y)^{\#(X)}$, closing the induction.
###### Exercise 3.6.5
> Let $A,B$ be sets. Show that $A\times B$ and $B\times A$ by constructing an explicit bijection between the two sets.

Let $f:A\times B:B\times A$ be given by $f((a,b))=(b,a)$ for all $a\in A$ and $b\in B$. It is trivially clear that $f$ is a bijection, so $\#(A\times B)=\#(B\times A)$. By Proposition 3.6.14(e), we also have $\#(A)\times\#(B)=\#(B)\times\#(A)$.

> Prove Lemma 2.3.2.

Let $a,b$ be any two naturals and define $A=\{i\in\N:1\leq i\leq a\}$ and $B=\{i\in\N:1\leq i\leq b\}$. Considering the identity bijection, it is clear to see $\#(A)=a$ and $\#(B)=b$. Substituting into the previous result, we have $a\times b=b\times a$, proving Lemma 2.3.2.
###### Exercise 3.6.6
> Let $A,B,C$ be sets. Show that the sets $(A^B)^C$ and $A^{B\times C}$ have equal cardinality by constructing an explicit bijection between the two sets.

Let $f:(A^B)^C\to A^{B\times C}$. For any $x\in(A^B)^C$, define $f(x):B\times C\to A$ by $f(x)((b,c))=x(c)(b)$ for all $b\in B$ and $c\in C$. We omit the proof that this is a bijection.

> Prove $(a^b)^c=a^{bc}$ for any naturals $a,b,c$.

Let $A,B,C$ be sets s.t. $a=\#(A),b=\#(B),c=\#(C)$. By repeated application of Proposition 3.6.14(f), $\#(A^B)=a^b$, $\#((A^B)^C)=(a^b)^c$. By Proposition 3.6.14(e), $\#(B\times C)=bc$, and by Proposition 3.6.14(f) again, $\#(A^{B\times C})=a^{bc}$. Since by the previous result $(A^B)^C$ and $A^{B\times C}$ have the same cardinality, by substitution we have $a^bc=(a^b)^c$.

> Prove that $a^b\times a^c=a^{b+c}$

Let $A,B,C$ be sets s.t. $a=\#(A),b=\#(B),c=\#(C)$ and $B,C$ are disjoint. Let $f:A^B\times A^C\to A^{B\cup C}$ be given by the construction of Exercise 3.3.8(d). The proof that $f$ is a bijection is omitted. This means $\#(A^B\times A^C)=\#(A^{B\cup C})$. By applying Proposition 3.6.14(b), (e) and (f), we have $a^b\times a^c=a^{b+c}$.
###### Exercise 3.6.7
> Let $A,B$ be sets. Let us say that $A$ has lesser or equal cardinality to $B$ if there exists an injection $f:A\to B$. Show that if $A,B$ are finite sets, then $A$ has lesser or equal cardinality to $B$ iff $\#(A)\leq\#(B)$.

Since $f$ is injective, $f':A\to f(A)$ given by $f'(a)=f(a)$ for all $a\in A$ is a bijection. We have $\#(A)=\#(f(A))$. $f(A)\subseteq B$, so from Proposition 3.6.14(c) we have $\#(f(A))\leq\#(B)$. Substituting, we get $\#(A)\leq\#(B)$, completing the proof.
###### Exercise 3.6.8
> Let $A,B$ be sets s.t. there exists an injection $f:A\to B$. Show that there exists a surjection $g:B\to A$.

We add the condition that $A$ is nonempty, otherwise it is impossible. (I checked the errata.)

Since $A$ is nonempty, there exists $a_0\in A$. We define $g:B\to A$ as $g(b)=a_0$ if $b\notin f(A)$, otherwise if $b\in f(A)$, $g(b)=a$ where $a$ is the single element in $A$ s.t. $f(a)=b$. We know there is only one such $a$ because $f$ is a bijection. We know that such an element exists because $b\in f(A)$.
$g$ is surjective: Let $a\in A$. $g(f(a))=a$.
###### Exercise 3.6.9
> Let $A,B$ be finite sets. Show that $A\cup B$ and $A\cap B$ are also finite sets, and that $\#(A)+\#(B)=\#(A\cap B)+\#(A\cup B)$.

$A\cup B$ is finite by Proposition 3.6.14(b). Since $A\cap B\subseteq A$, it is finite by Proposition 3.6.14(c).
Since $A-B,A\cap B$ are disjoint and their union is $A$, we have $\#(A)=\#(A-B)+\#(A\cap B)$ by Proposition 3.6.14(b). Likewise, we also have $\#(B)=\#(B-A)+\#(A\cap B)$. Adding the two together, we have $\#(A)+\#(B)=\#(A-B)+\#(B-A)+2\#(A\cap B)$.
By the result of Exercise 3.1.10, we have that $A-B,B-A,A\cap B$ are all disjoint and that $A\cup B$ is their union. By Proposition 3.6.14(b), we have $\#(A-B)+\#(B-A)+\#(A\cap B)=\#(A\cup B)$. Substituting, we get $\#(A)+\#(B)=\#(A\cup B)+\#(A\cap B)$, completing the proof.
###### Exercise 3.6.10
> Let $A_1,\ldots,A_n$ be finite sets s.t. $\#(\bigcup_{1\leq i\leq n}A_i)>n$. Show that there exists $1\leq i\leq n$ s.t. $\#(A_i)\geq 2$. (This is called the pigeonhole principle.)

We proceed by induction on $n$. For the base case $n=1$, we have $\#(\bigcup_{1\leq i\leq 1}A_i)=\#(A_1)>n=1$, so $\#(A_1)\geq 2$. We assume inductively that the statement holds for $n$, and we shall prove it for $n^+$. Let $A_1,\ldots,A_n,A_{n^+}$ be finite sets s.t. $\#(\bigcup_{1\leq i\leq n^+}A_i)>n^+$. If $\#(A_{n^+})\geq 2$, then we are done. Otherwise, $\#(A_{n^+})\leq 1$. By Proposition 3.6.14(b), we have $\#(\bigcup_{1\leq i\leq n^+}A_i)\leq \#(\bigcup_{1\leq i\leq n}A_i)+\#(A_{n^+})$. Substituting, $\#(\bigcup_{1\leq i\leq n}A_i)+\#(A_{n^+})>n^+$. Since $\#(A_{n^+})\leq 1$, we have $\#(\bigcup_{1\leq i\leq n}A_i)>n$. Applying the IH, there exists some $1\leq i\leq n$ s.t. $\#(A_i)\geq 2$, closing the induction.