# Content
**Definition 2.2.1** (Addition of natural numbers)
For any natural $n$ and $m$, $0+m=m$ and $n^++m=(n+m)^+$.

**Lemma 2.2.2**
$n+0=n$ for all natural $n$.

**Lemma 2.2.3**
$n+m^+=(n+m)^+$ for all natural $n$ and $m$.

**Proposition 2.2.4** (Addition is commutative)
$n+m=m+n$ for all natural $n,m$.

**Proposition 2.2.5** (Addition is associative)
For any natural $a$, $b$ and $c$, we have $a+(b+c)=(a+b)+c$.

**Proposition 2.2.6** (Cancellation law)
Let $a,b,c$ be naturals s.t. $a+b=a+c$. Then, $b=c$.

**Definition 2.2.7** (Positive natural numbers)
A natural is positive iff it is not zero.

**Proposition 2.2.8**
For positive natural $a$ and natural $b$, $a+b$ is positive.

**Corollary 2.2.9**
For natural $a$ and $b$, $a+b=0$ implies both $a=0$ and $b=0$.

**Lemma 2.2.10**
Let $a$ be a positive natural. There exists precisely one natural s.t. $b^+=a$.

**Definition 2.2.11** (Ordering of the natural numbers)
Let $n,m$ be naturals. $n\geq m$ iff $n=m+a$ for some natural $a$. $n>m$ iff $n\geq m$ and $n\neq m$.

**Proposition 2.2.12** (Basic property of order for natural numbers)
Let $a,b,c$ be naturals.
(a) (Order is reflexive) $a\geq a$ 
(b) (Order is transitive) $a\geq b$ and $b\geq c$ imply $a\geq c$
(c) (Order is anti-symmetric) $a\geq b$ and $b\geq a$ imply $a=b$
(d) (Addition preserves order) $a\geq b$ iff $a+c\geq b+c$ 
(e) $a<b$ iff $a^+\leq b$ 
(f) $a<b$ iff $b=a+d$ for some positive natural $d$.

**Proposition 2.2.13** (Trichotomy of order for natural numbers)
Let $a$ and $b$ be naturals. Precisely one of $a>b$, $a=b$, $a<b$ hold.

**Proposition 2.2.14** (Strong principle of induction)
Let $P(m)$ be a property relating to the naturals. Let $m_0$ be a natural number. If for any $m\geq m_0$ we have that $P(m')$ for all $m'$ s.t. $m_0\leq m'< m$ implies $P(m)$, $P(m)$ holds for all $m\geq m_0$.
# Exercises
###### Exercise 2.2.1
> Prove Proposition 2.2.5. ($a+(b+c)=(a+b)+c$ for all naturals $a,b,c$.)

We induct on $a$. For $a=0$,
$$\begin{align}
(a+b)+c&=(0+b)+c
\\&=b+c&\quad\text{(2.2.1)}
\\&=0+(b+c)&\quad\text{(2.2.1)}
\\&=a+(b+c)
\end{align}$$
showing the base case. We assume inductively that $a+(b+c)=(a+b)+c$, and we wish to prove that $(a^++b)+c=a^++(b+c)$.
$$\begin{align}
(a^++b)+c&=(a+b)^++c&\quad\text{(2.2.1)}
\\&=((a+b)+c)^+&\quad\text{(2.2.1)}
\\&=(a+(b+c))^+&\quad\text{(Inductive hypothesis)}
\\&=a^++(b+c)&\quad\text{(2.2.1)}
\end{align}$$
which closes the induction.

###### Exercise 2.2.2
> Prove Lemma 2.2.10. (For every positive $a$ there exists natural $b$ s.t. $b^+=a$.)

We will prove that for any natural $a$, that $a$ is positive implies that there exists exactly one natural $b$ s.t. $b^+=a$. If there were more than one, there would be a natural $c$ s.t. $c\neq b$ and $c^+=a$. But $b^+=a$ so $b^+=c^+$ which contradicts Axiom 2.4, different naturals should have different successors. It remains to prove that there is at least one suitable natural $b$. We induct on $a$. For $a=0$, the implication is vacuously true due to that $0$ is not positive (Definition 2.2.7). We assume inductively that there exists natural $b$ s.t. $b^+=a$. Taking the successor of both sides, we have $(b^+)^+=a^+$, showing that $a^+$ is the successor of some natural, closing the induction.

###### Exercise 2.2.3
> Prove Proposition 2.2.12.
> (a) $a\geq a$

$a=a+0$, so by Definition 2.2.11 we have $a\geq a$.

> (b) $a\geq b\wedge b\geq c\implies a\geq c$

$a\geq b$ means there exists natural $d$ s.t. $a=b+d$ (2.2.11). Likewise, $b\geq c$ means $b=c+e$ for some natural $e$. Substituting, we have $a=(c+e)+d$. By associativity (2.2.5) we have $a=c+(e+d)$, which means $a\geq c$ (2.2.11).

> (c) $a\geq b\wedge b\geq a\implies a=b$

Applying 2.2.11 we have naturals $c,d$ s.t. $a=b+c$ and $b=a+d$. Substituting, we have $a=(a+d)+c$. By associativity (2.2.5) we have $a=a+(d+c)$. By Lemma 2.2.2, $a+0=a+(d+c)$, and by the cancellation law (2.2.6) we have $0=d+c$. By Corollary 2.2.9, $d=0$ and $c=0$. Substituting into $a=b+c$, we have $a=b+0$ which by Lemma 2.2.2 implies $a+b$, completing the proof.

> (d) $a\geq b\iff a+c\geq b+c$

For some natural $d$,
$$\begin{align}
a&\geq b 
\\ a&=b+d&\quad\text{(Order (2.2.11))}
\\ a+c&=(b+d)+c&\quad\text{(Substitution axiom)}
\\&=b+(d+c)&\quad\text{(Associativity (2.2.5))}
\\&=b+(c+d)&\quad\text{(Commutativity (2.2.4))}
\\ a+c&=(b+c)+d&\quad\text{(Associativity (2.2.5))}
\\ a+c&\geq b+c&\quad\text{(Order (2.2.11))}
\end{align}$$

> (e) $a<b \iff a^+\leq b$

$\implies:$ $a<b$ by 2.2.11 means both $a\leq b$ and $a\neq b$. We have $a+c=b$ for some natural $c$. If $c$ were $0$, then that would mean $a+0=b$ which by Lemma 2.2.2 means $a=b$ which contradicts that $a<b$. Therefore $c\neq 0$, meaning $c$ is positive. By Lemma 2.2.10, there exists a $d$ s.t. $d^+=c$. Substituting, we have $a+d^+=b$, which by Lemma 2.2.3 means $(a+d)^+=b$, which means $a^++d=b$ by Definition 2.2.1, leading to $a^+\leq b$ by the definition of order (2.2.11).
$\impliedby:$ $a^++d=b$ for some natural $d$ by 2.2.11. By 2.2.1 $(a+d)^+=b$, by 2.2.3 $a+d^+=b$. This shows $a\leq b$ by 2.2.11. Let $c=d^+$. By Axiom 2.3, $c$ cannot be $0$. We have $a+c=b$. If $a=b$, then $a+c=b+0$ by 2.2.2, and by cancellation (2.2.6) we have $c=0$, a contradiction. This shows that $a\neq b$. Since both $a\leq b$ and $a\neq b$, we have $a<b$ by 2.2.11, completing the proof.

> (f) $a<b$ iff there exists positive $d$ s.t. $b=a+d$

$\implies:$ $a\leq b$ and $a\neq b$ by 2.2.11, $b=a+c$ for some natural $c$ by 2.2.11 again. If $c=0$, then we have $b=a+0$ by substitution and $b=a$ by 2.2.2, a contradiction. Therefore $c\neq 0$, so $c$ is positive, rendering it a suitable $d$ for $b=a+d$.
$\impliedby:$ $a\leq b$ by 2.2.11. If $a=b$, we have $b=b+d$ by substitution, $b+0=b+d$ by 2.2.2, and $0=d$ by 2.2.6 which contradicts that $d$ is positive. Therefore $a\neq b$. Since we have $a\leq b$, we have $a<b$ by 2.2.11.

###### Exercise 2.2.4
> Justify the three statements marked (why?) in the proof of Proposition 2.2.13.
> "\[...\] we have $0\leq b$ for all $b$ (why?) \[...\]"

Let $b$ be any natural. $b=b$, and by 2.2.1, $0+b=b$, so $0\leq b$ by 2.2.11.

> "\[...\] If $a>b$, then $a^+>b$ (why?) \[...\]"

$a\geq b$ and $a\neq b$ by 2.2.11, and $a=b+c$ for some natural $c$ by 2.2.11 again. Incrementing both sides, $a^+=(b+c)^+$, which by 2.2.3 means $a^+=b+c^+$. Since $c^+\neq 0$ by Axiom 2.3, $c^+$ is positive. By 2.2.13(f), from $a^+=b+c^+$ we have $a^+>b$.

> "\[...\] If $a=b$, then $a^+>b$ (why?) \[...\]"

By 2.2.2, we have $a=b+0$. Incrementing both sides, $a^+=(b+0)^+$, and by 2.2.3 we have $a^+=b+0^+$. $0^+\neq 0$ by Axiom 2.3, so it is positive, and by 2.2.13(f) we have $a^+>b$.

###### Exercise 2.2.5
> Prove Proposition 2.2.14.

**Lemma 1:** Let $a$ and $b$ be naturals. If $a<b^+$, we have either $a=b$ or $a<b$.
**Proof of lemma 1:**
By 2.2.13(e) we have $a^+\leq b^+$. By 2.2.11 there exists $c$ s.t. $a^++c=b^+$. By 2.2.1 we have $(a+c)^+=b^+$. By the contrapositive of Axiom 2.4, we have $a+c=b$, meaning that $a\leq b$ by 2.2.11. If $a=b$, we have the first case. If $a\neq b$, combining with $a\leq b$ we have $a<b$ by 2.2.11.

**Lemma 2:** Let $a$ be a natural. $a<a^+$
**Proof of lemma 2:**
$a=a$, $a+0=a$ by 2.2.2, $(a+0)^+=a^+$ incrementing both sides, $a+0^+=a^+$ by 2.2.3. $0^+\neq 0$ by Axiom 2.3, meaning it is positive by 2.2.7. By 2.2.13(f), $a<a^+$.

**Proof of the exercise:**
Let $Q(n)$ be the property that $P(m)$ is true for all $m_0\leq m < n$. We will prove that $Q(n)$ holds for all $n$ by inducting on $n$.

For the base case $n=0$, we consider all $m<0$. By 2.2.11, $m+a=0$ for some natural $a$, meaning $m=0$ by 2.2.9, which contradicts that $m<0$. This means that there are no $m$ to be considered, rendering the statement vacuously true.

Now that we have proved the base case, we assume inductively that $Q(n)$ is true. We wish to prove that $Q(n^+)$ holds. This means that we have that $P(m)$ holds for all $m_0\leq m<n$ and we wish to prove that $P(x)$ holds for all $m_0\leq x<n^+$. By our first lemma, we have that $x$ is either $<n$ or $=n$. In the first case, $P(x)$ is shown by the inductive hypothesis. In the second case, we apply our assumption (when for all $m_0\leq m'<m$ it holds that $P(m')$, $P(m)$ holds) to the inductive hypothesis to get that $P(n)$ holds, showing that $P(x)$ by substitution. This closes the induction.

We now have that $Q(n)$ holds for all natural $n$. Let $m$ be any natural s.t. $m\geq m_0$. $Q(m^+)$ holds due to our proof by induction, and since $m_0\leq m < m^+$ by our second lemma, $P(m)$ holds. This completes the proof.
###### Exercise 2.2.6
> Let $n$ be a natural, and let $P(m)$ be a property pertaining to the naturals s.t. $P(m)$ holds when $P(m^+)$ holds. Suppose that $P(n)$ is true. Prove that for all $m\leq n$, $P(m)$ holds.

We induct on $n$. We consider the base case $n=0$. We consider all $m$ s.t. $m\leq n$, so all $m$ s.t. $m\leq 0$. By 2.2.11, we have $m+a=0$ for some a, meaning $m=0$ by 2.2.9. This shows that we only need to consider $m=0$. $P(n)$ holds by our assumption, meaning $P(0)$ by substitution, and $P(m)$ by substitution again, showing the base case.

We assume inductively that the statement holds for $n$, i.e. $P(n)$ implies that $P(m)$ holds for all $m\leq n$. To close the induction we need to prove that $P(n^+)$ implies that $P(m)$ holds for all $m\leq n^+$. Considering all $m\leq n^+$, assume that $m=n^+$. By the assumption, $P(n^+)$ holds so $P(m)$ holds by substitution. Now we assume that $m\neq n^+$. By 2.2.11, we have $m<n^+$, and by 2.2.13(e) we have $m^+\leq n^+$. As we have proved in the previous exercise, this implies that $m\leq n$, meaning it only remains to prove that $P(m)$ for all $m\leq n$. Since $P(n^+)$ holds by our assumption, $P(n)$ also holds by the definition of $P$, and applying the assumption of the inductive hypothesis to $P(n)$ we have $P(m)$ for all $m\leq n$. This shows the remaining case, completing the proof.