# Content
**Definition 2.3.1** (Multiplication of natural numbers)
Let $m$ and $n$ be naturals. $0\times m:=0$, and $n^+\times m:=(n\times m)+m$.

**Lemma 2.3.2** (Multiplication is commutative)
Let $n,m$ be naturals. $n\times m=m\times n$.

**Lemma 2.3.3** (Positive natural number have no zero divisors)
Let $n,m$ be naturals. $n\times m=0$ iff at least one of $n,m$ is $0$. In particular, if $n$ and $m$ are both positive, $nm$ is also positive.

**Proposition 2.3.4** (Distributive law)
For any naturals $a,b,c$, we have $a(b+c)=ab+ac$ and $(b+c)a=ba+ca$.

**Proposition 2.3.5** (Multiplication is associative)
For any naturals $a,b,c$, we have $a(bc)=(ab)c$.

**Proposition 2.3.6** (Multiplication preserves order)
For any naturals $a,b,c$ s.t. $c$ is positive, if $a<b$ then $ac<bc$.

**Corollary 2.3.7** (Cancellation)
For any naturals $a,b,c$ s.t. $c$ is nonzero, if $ac=bc$ then $a=b$.

**Proposition 2.3.9** (Euclidean algorithm)
Let $n$ be a natural and $q$ a positive natural. There exist naturals $m,r$ s.t. $0\leq r<q$ and $n=mq+r$.

**Definition 2.3.11** (Exponentiation for natural numbers)
Let $m,n$ be naturals. $m^0:=1$ and $m^{n^+}=m^n\times m$.
# Exercises
###### Exercise 2.3.1
> Prove Lemma 2.3.2.

**Lemma 1:** $n\times 0=0$ for any natural $n$.
**Proof of lemma 1:**
We induct on $n$. For the base case $n=0$, $0\times0=0$ by the definition of multiplication (2.3.1). We assume inductively that $n\times 0=0$. Adding $0$ we have $(n\times 0)+0=0$, and by 2.3.1 this means $n^+\times 0=0$, closing the induction.

**Lemma 2:** $n\times m^+=n+(n\times m)$ for any natural $n,m$.
**Proof of lemma 2:**
We induct on $n$. For the base case $n=0$, $0\times m^+=0$ by 2.3.1, and $0\times m^+=0\times m$. Adding $0$, we have $0\times m^+=0+(0\times m)$, showing the base case. We assume inductively that $n\times m^+=n+(n\times m)$.
$$\begin{align}
n^+\times m^+&=(n\times m^+)+m^+&\quad\text{(Definition of multiplication (2.3.1))}
\\&=n+(n\times m)+m^+&\quad\text{(Inductive hypothesis)}
\\&=n^++(n\times m)+m&\quad\text{(Properties of addition)}
\\&=n^++(n^+\times m)&\quad\text{(Definition of multiplication (2.3.1))}
\end{align}$$
This closes the induction.

**Proof of the exercise:**
We induct on $n$. In the base case $n=0$, we have $0\times m=0$ by 2.3.1, and $0\times m=m\times 0$ by our first lemma, showing the base case.
$$\begin{align}
n\times m&=m\times n&\quad\text{(Inductive hypothesis)}
\\ (n\times m)+m&=(m\times n)+m&\quad\text{(Axiom of substitution)}
\\ n^+\times m&=(m\times n)+m&\quad\text{(Definition of multiplication (2.3.1))}
\\ &=m+(m\times n)&\quad\text{(Commutativity of addition)}
\\ n^+\times m&=m\times n^+&\quad\text{(Lemma 2)}
\end{align}$$
This closes the induction.
###### Exercise 2.3.2
> Prove Lemma 2.3.3.

$\impliedby:$ If $n=0$, then $n\times m=0\times m=0$ holds by the definition of multiplication (2.3.1). If $m=0$, then $n\times m=n\times 0=0$ holds by Lemma 1 of the proof of Exercise 2.3.1.
$\implies:$ For the sake of contradiction, assume that neither of $n,m$ are nonzero, i.e. positive. By 2.2.10, there exists a natural $a$ s.t. $a^+=n$. $n\times m=a^+\times m=(a\times m)+m$. Since $m$ is nonzero, the contrapositive of Corollary 2.2.9 implies that $(a\times m)+m$ is also positive, meaning that $n\times m$ is positive, contradicting our assumption that $n\times m=0$. This means that at least one of $n,m$ is zero.
###### Exercise 2.3.3
> Prove Proposition 2.3.5.

We induct on $a$. For $a=0$ we have $0(bc)=0=0c=(0b)c$ by repeated application of 2.3.1, showing the base case.
$$\begin{align}
a(bc)&=(ab)c&\quad\text{(Inductive hypothesis)}
\\ a(bc)+bc&=(ab)c+bc&\quad\text{(Axiom of substitution)}
\\ a^+(bc)&=(ab)c+bc&\quad\text{(Definition of multiplication (2.3.1))}
\\ a^+(bc)&=(ab+b)c&\quad\text{(Distributive law (2.3.4))}
\\ a^+(bc)&=(a^+b)c&\quad\text{(Definition of multiplication (2.3.1))}
\end{align}$$
This closes the induction.
###### Exercise 2.3.4
> Prove the identity $(a+b)^2=a^2+2ab+b^2$ for all naturals $a,b$.

**Lemma 3:** $a+a=2a$
**Proof of lemma 3:**
$1a=0^+a=0a+a=0+a=a$ by applying the definition of $1$, the definition of multiplication (2.3.1) and properties of addition. $a+a=1a+1a=(1+1)a$ by the distributive law (2.3.4), and by properties of addition we have $1+1=2$ so $a+a=2a$.

**Proof of the exercise:**
$$\begin{align}
(a+b)^2&=(a+b)(a+b)&\quad\text{(Definition of exponentiation (2.3.11))}
\\&=(a+b)a+(a+b)b&\quad\text{(Distributive law (2.3.4))}
\\&=aa+ba+(a+b)b&\quad\text{(Distributive law (2.3.4))}
\\&=aa+ba+ab+bb&\quad\text{(Distributive law (2.3.4))}
\\&=aa+ab+ab+bb&\quad\text{(Commutativity of multiplication (2.3.2))}
\\&=aa+2ab+bb&\quad\text{(Lemma 3)}
\\(a+b)^2&=a^2+2ab+b^2&\quad\text{(Definition of exponentiation (2.3.11))}
\end{align}$$
###### Exercise 2.3.5
> Prove Proposition 2.3.9.

We induct on $n$. For the base case $n=0$, $m=r=0$ satisfy the conditions. $0\leq 0<q$ since $q$ is positive, and $0=0q+0$ from the definition of multiplication.
We assume inductively that there exist naturals $m,r$ s.t. $0\leq r<q$ and $n=mq+r$. We wish to show that there exist naturals $m',r'$ s.t. $0\leq r'<q$ and $n^+=m'q+r'$. Incrementing both sides of the inductive hypothesis, we have $n^+=mq+r+1$. If $r=q-1$, then this becomes $n^+=mq+q-1+1=mq+q=m^+q+0$ which gives $m'=m^+$ and $r'=0$ which are suitable. Otherwise, $r>q-1$ would contradict our hypothesis, so $r<q-1$. $r+1<q$, so $n^+=mq+r+1$ gives $m'=m$ and $r'=r+1$ which are suitable. This closes the induction and completes the proof.