**Exercise 1**
$(1,0),(0,1)$
$(2,1),(1,2)$
$(-1,1),(1,1)$

**Exercises 2-3**
Basis
Not a basis $(10,-14,0)=4(2,-3,1)-2(-1,1,2)$

**Exercises 4-9**
$1,\sqrt{2}$
$1$
$1,\sqrt[3]{2},\sqrt[3]{4}$
$1,i$
$1,i$
$1,\sqrt[4]{2},\sqrt[4]{4},\sqrt[4]{8}$

**Exercise 10**
$\alpha^2=\alpha+1$
$x=1+\alpha$
$x+1=\alpha$
$x^2+1=\alpha+1$
$x^2=\alpha$
$x=1+x^2$
$x^2+x+1=0$
$\irr(1+\alpha,\Z_2)=x^2+x+1$

**Exercises 11-14**
Not necessarily uniquely.
The zero vector can be expressed as a linear combination of any subset. It should be "the zero vector can only be expressed as a linear combination of the vectors if all of the scalar coefficients are zero".
True.
"linearly *in*dependent".

**Exercise 15**
a. T
b. F
c. T
d. T
e. F ($F[x]$ has no finite bases)
f. F
g. F
h. T
i. T
j. T? (not sure about infinite-dimensional spaces)

**Exercise 16**
a.
A subspace $W$ of an $F$-vector space $V$ is a subset of $V$ s.t. for any $u,v\in W$ and $f\in F$, $u+v\in W$ and $fu\in W$.
b.
Let $U$ and $V$ be subspaces of an $F$-vector space $W$. For any $\alpha,\beta\in U\cap V$, $\alpha+\beta\in U$ since $U$ is a subspace and likewise for $V$, showing that $\alpha+\beta\in U\cap V$. For any $f\in F$, $f\alpha\in V$ since $V$ is a subspace, and likewise for $U$, showing that $f\alpha\in U\cap V$. This proves both requirements for $U\cap V$ to be a subspace.

**Exercise 17**
a.
The subspace of $V$ generated by $S$ is the set of all linear combinations of the vectors in $S$.
b.
????? (TODO: find what was intended for (a))

**Exercise 18**
We define the direct sum of the $V_i$ as the smallest vector space containing all the $V_i$ as subspaces. (TODO doesn't make sense, problem is ambiguous)

**Exercise 19**
Obvious? (literally take the example and substitute $F$ for $\R$)

**Exercise 20**
For a field $F$ and $F$-vector spaces $V$ and $V'$, a bijection $\phi : V\to V'$ s.t. $\phi(fv)=f\phi(v)$ and $\phi(u+v)=\phi(u)+\phi(v)$ for all $f\in F$ and $u,v\in V$ is an isomorphism.

**Exercise 21**
We will first prove that if the $\beta_i$ form a basis then every element in $V$ can be expressed uniquely as a linear combination of the $\beta_i$.
Since the $\beta_i$ are a basis, they span $V$. This means that every element of $V$ can be expressed as a linear combination of the $\beta_i$. It remains to show that this expression is unique. If it weren't unique, there would be $a_i,b_i\in F$ s.t. $\sum_{i}a_i\beta_i=\sum_{i}b_i\beta_i$ $a_k\neq b_k$ for some $k$. $\sum_{i}a_i\beta_i-\sum_{i}b_i\beta_i=0=\sum_{i}(a_i-b_i)\beta_i$, we get an expression of $0$ as a linear combination of the $\beta_i$, but $a_k-b_k\neq 0$ contradicting that the $\beta_i$ are linearly independent. This means that the expression of each vector in $V$ as a linear combination of the $\beta_i$ must be unique.
Now we will prove that if every vector in $V$ can be expressed uniquely as a linear combination of the $\beta_i$, then the $\beta_i$ form a basis.
Since every vector in $V$ can be expressed uniquely as a linear combination of the $\beta_i$, the $\beta_i$ span $V$. It remains to show that the $\beta_i$ are linearly independent. Assume for the sake of contradiction that they are not, and that $\sum_ia_i\beta_i=0$ for $a_i\in F$ s.t. $a_k\neq 0$ for some $k$. $\sum_i0\beta_i=0$ is a different way to express the same 0 vector, which contradicts our initial assumption that every vector had a unique representation as a linear combination of the $\beta_i$. This shows that the $\beta_i$ are linearly independent, showing that they form a basis.
This completes the proof.

**Exercise 22**
a.
Omitted because even the book says it's trivial. (TODO)
b.
By Exercise 21, every vector in $F^n$ has a unique representation as a linear combination of the elements in a basis. The $\alpha_j$ form our basis, and $\beta$ is the vector we wish to represent as a linear combination as by (a) the solutions to our system of linear equations are these linear combinations. By Exercise 21 this combination is unique, therefore the solution is unique.

**Exercise 23**
Since $V$ is a finite-dimensional vector space, it has a finite basis. Let this finite basis be given by $\alpha_i$ for a finite number of $i$. Consider $\phi:V\to F^n$ that gives the scalar coefficients of the unique linear combination that expresses the vector in the input. (Uniqueness is given by Exercise 21. From this it is apparent that $\phi$ is a bijection.) Formally, $\phi(v)=(a_1,\ldots,a_n)$ s.t. $v=\sum_ia_i\alpha_i$.
Scalar multiplication commutes with $\phi$:
Let $f\in F$ and $v\in V$. Since $v=\sum_ia_i\alpha_i$ for $a_i\in F$ we have $fv=f(\sum_ia_i\alpha_i)=\sum_ifa_i\alpha_i$.
$f\phi(v)=f(a_1,\ldots,a_n)=(fa_1,\ldots,fa_n)=\phi(fv)$.
Vector addition commutes with $\phi$:
Let $u,v\in V$. $u=\sum_ia_i\alpha_i$, $v=\sum_ib_i\alpha_i$ for $a_i,b_i\in F$. Adding, $u+v=\sum_ia_i\alpha_i+\sum_ib_i\alpha_i=\sum_i(a_i+b_i)\alpha_i$.
$\phi(u+v)=(a_1+b_1,\ldots,a_n+b_n)$
$=(a_1,\ldots,a_n)+(b_1,\ldots,b_n)=\phi(u)+\phi(v)$
This shows that $\phi$ is an isomorphism, showing that $V$ and $F^n$ are isomorphic, completing the proof.

**Exercise 24**
a.
Let $v$ be any vector. By Exercise 21, $v$ is expressed by a unique linear combination of the basis $\beta_i$, so for $a_i\in F$, $v=\sum_ia_i\beta_i$. $\phi(v)=\phi(\sum_ia_i\beta_i)=\sum_i\phi(a_i\beta_i)=\sum_ia_i\phi(\beta_i)$, showing that $v$ is determined by the $\phi(\beta_i)$, completing the proof.
b.
From (a) we see that any choices of $\phi(\beta_i)$ in $V'$ give a well-defined linear transformation, as $\phi(v)$ is defined uniquely for all $v\in V$. Likewise, we see that the choice gives a unique mapping, as every vector in $V$ is determined by the $\phi(\beta_i)$, meaning two functions that map the basis to the same set are the same functions.

**Exercise 25**
a.
A homomorphism.
b.
The kernel of $\phi$ can be defined as the set of vectors that are mapped to 0 by $\phi$, i.e. $\Ker(\phi)=\{v\ |\ \phi(v)=0\}$.
Closed under scalar multiplication:
Let $v\in\Ker(\phi)$ and $f\in F$. $\phi(fv)=f\phi(v)=f0=0$ showing that $fv\in\Ker(\phi)$.
Closed under vector addition:
Let $u,v\in\Ker(\phi)$. $\phi(u+v)=\phi(u)+\phi(v)=0+0=0$, showing that $u+v\in\Ker(\phi)$.
This shows that $\Ker(\phi)$ is a subspace of $V$.
c.
When $\phi$ is bijective. Equivalently, when $\Ker(\phi)=\{0\}$.

**Exercise 26**
The quotient space $V/S$ is the factor group $V/S$. Since $V$ is an abelian group, all of its subgroups are normal and it makes sense to speak of $V/S$. Defining scalar multiplication as $a(v+S)=\{au\ |\ u\in v+S\}$, we can show that it is well defined when conducted by a representative. $a(v+S)=av+aS$, and since $S$ is a subspace, $aS=S$ so $a(v+S)=av+S$.

Vector space axioms:
$a(b(v+S))=a(bv+S)=abv+S=ab(v+S)=(ab)(v+S)$

$(a+b)(v+S)=(a+b)v+S=av+bv+S$
$=av+S+bv+S=(av+S)+(bv+S)$

$a((u+S)+(v+S))=a((u+v)+S)=a(u+v)+S$
$=au+av+S=au+S+av+S=(au+S)+(av+S)$

$1(v+S)=1v+S=v+S$

Completing the proof that $V/S$ is a vector space over $F$.

**Exercise 27**
a.
Let $v'\in\phi[V]$. There must exist $v\in V$ s.t. $\phi(v)=v'$. Let $a\in F$. $av'=a\phi(v)=\phi(av)$ showing that $av'\in \phi[V]$, meaning that $\phi[V]$ is closed under scalar multiplication.
Let $u',v'\in\phi[V]$. There must exist $u,v\in V$ s.t. $\phi(u)=u'$ and $\phi(v)=v'$. $u'+v'=\phi(u)+\phi(v)=\phi(u+v)$ showing that $u'+v'\in\phi[V]$, meaning that $\phi[V]$ is closed under vector addition.
This completes the proof that $\phi[V]$ is a subspace.
b.
Let $n=\dim(V)$ and $m=\dim(\Ker(\phi))$
Let $\beta_1,\ldots,\beta_m$ form a basis for $\Ker(\phi)$. Since it is a basis, it is a linearly independent set in $V$ and can be enlarged to a basis of $V$. Let this basis be $\beta_1,\ldots,\beta_m,\alpha_{m+1},\ldots,\alpha_n$. By Exercise 24(a), we see that elements of $\phi[V]$ are completely determined by $\phi(\beta_1),\ldots,\phi(\beta_m),\phi(\alpha_{m+1}),\ldots,\phi(\alpha_n)$ as linear combinations. But since the $\beta_i$ were in $\Ker(\phi)$, all the $\phi(\beta_i)$ are zero and the aforementioned linear combinations are linear combinations of the $\phi(\alpha_{m+1}),\ldots,\phi(\alpha_n)$. This shows that the $\phi(\alpha_{m+1}),\ldots,\phi(\alpha_n)$ span $\phi[V]$. Since the $\alpha_i$ were part of a basis of $V$, they are linearly independent. Linear transformations preserve linear independence (proof omitted), showing that $\phi(\alpha_{m+1}),\ldots,\phi(\alpha_n)$ are linearly independent as well as spanning $\phi[V]$, showing they form a basis for $\phi[V]$. There are $n-m$ elements in this basis, showing that $\dim(\phi[V])=\dim(V)-\dim(\Ker(\phi))$.